<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html
  xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
  xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"
  xml:lang="en-US"
  lang="en-US"
>
  <head>
    <title>Template Chapter Title</title>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="./styles/styles.css" />
  </head>
  <body>
    <section epub:type="chapter">
      <div class="chapter-header" epub:type="pagebreak">
        <p class="center-text">
          Battle of Endor +17 days <br />
          Sullust system <br />
          CRC <i>Veracity</i>
        </p>
      </div>
      <div>
        <p>
          "Please, have a seat, major. How have you been? How's the family? You
          wouldn't believe how many requests for leave I've reviewed these past
          two weeks."
        </p>
        <p>
          Major Rosk Vikeron listened to her officer's small talk with complete
          attention and zero interest.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Everybody wants to go home to celebrate the victory against the
          second Death Star! Can't blame them, but destroying a Death Star
          doesn't mean the Empire's just going to roll over and give up. Didn't
          we learn that from the first one? There are still wars to be fought."
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>Please get to the point.</i> She'd never understood the purpose of
          pleasantries.
        </p>
        <p>
          Of course, the overly-warm temperature of the office didn't help, nor
          did the humidity, the bright lights, or the fellow seated behind the
          desk. Were Duros cold-blooded? Did that explain the climate in here?
          Or did the colonel just like making all his visitors sweat?
        </p>
        <p>
          "Your next assignment, major." Colonel Chamtal Amesh slid an
          inconspicuous datapad across his desk.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>Finally!</i> Rosk seized the pad with damp fingers and swept her
          gaze over the dossier on the screen. Contemplating how she'd have to
          approach the person in question, she nearly forgot her officer's
          presence, and her mood improved considerably.
        </p>
        <p>
          She hadn't said a word since entering his office. Her fellow agents in
          the Rebel Alliance Intelligence Service - or more recently, the New
          Republic Intelligence - knew her as "Silence" for reasons like this.
          It took her a long time to warm up to people at social events, a
          process the other agents liked to call "breaking the Silence".
        </p>
        <p>
          "Imperial, just the way you like 'em." The Duros sighed as he leaned
          back, and his chair groaned in resignation. "I don't like your
          methods, but I can't argue with your results."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Hff!" Pushing black hair behind her ear, Rosk finally looked up. She
          grinned. "You, sir, have no imagination."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Imagination?" Amesh narrowed his orange eyes. "My imagination worries
          that you sometimes forget who the enemy is, major."
        </p>
        <p>
          "I have no particular liking for Imperials; I just don't hate them."
          She shrugged. "Hate the Galactic Empire, colonel, not the Imperials."
        </p>
        <p>"They're one in the same."</p>
        <p>
          "There are hundreds of electronic components in this device." Rosk
          tapped the edge of the datapad. "No two of them are the same, and not
          one of them is a datapad by itself. Judge a group by the group's
          actions, and an individual by the individual's actions."
        </p>
        <p>
          The colonel's green fingers knitted together in disapproval. "You have
          your assignment. You are dismissed."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Thank you, sir." Rosk saluted crisply before leaving. The moment she
          stepped into the corridor, she took an appreciative lungful of the
          cool, dry air.
        </p>
        <p>
          "What's our new assignment, ma'am?" Just outside the colonel's office,
          right where she'd left him, Captain Evan Feldspar snapped to
          attention. With sandy hair that always needed cut and a boyish face,
          he looked exactly as he was - young and eager.
        </p>
        <p>
          "He's being detained in the starboard bow of Level 12, Block A, Room
          3C." Rosk walked briskly in that direction, swerving to avoid tripping
          over an MSE droid zipping toward Colonel Amesh's office.
        </p>
        <p>
          The droid emitted a noise that might have been an apology as it
          disappeared inside.
        </p>
        <p>
          Evan barely noticed, still fixated on the datapad in Rosk's hand. "So
          who is this guy?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "A TIE Defender pilot, taken prisoner during the capture of the
          Imperial space station <i>Ferro City</i>. Dark hair, brown eyes, wears
          the rank insignia of a lieutenant commander. Refuses to talk. Based on
          the mobilization of forces near Malastare, command thinks the Empire
          may be planning an attack and that this guy might have information
          about when and where." She passed him the datapad.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Right, because not just anyone gets assigned to a Defender." Evan
          scoured the sparse dossier. "So he could be privy to classified
          mission details?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Defender pilots have earned the privilege of being less disposable
          than TIE Fighter pilots, so maybe." Rosk walked past the horizontal
          turbolift. She smiled faintly as the captain shot the lift a longing
          glance.
        </p>
        <p>
          The <i>Quasar Fire</i>-class cruiser-carrier that currently served as
          the New Republic's base of operations in the Sullust system spanned a
          considerable distance, but the lift could have whisked them from one
          end to the other in moments.
        </p>
        <p>"It's a twenty minute walk from here, ma'am!"</p>
        <p>
          "Yes. Which gives us time to think before we charge in headlong,
          yeah?" Rosk tapped her head. "Twenty minutes of planning can make the
          difference between disaster and victory."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yes, ma'am." The youthful captain quickened his pace to keep up with
          her as he took notes on his own datapad. He wasn't ready to lead an
          interrogation, but at least he diligently took down everything she
          tried to teach him.
        </p>
        <p>
          After a while, Evan's attention returned to the other datapad. "This
          file barely has anything. Is this all we got?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "And no, that's not all we got." Rosk smiled. "We got a new best
          friend."
        </p>
        <p>"Best friend? I don't - "</p>
        <p>
          "This guy." She reclaimed the datapad and waved it at him playfully.
          "He's our new pal."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Major, no disrespect, but . . . you're very strange." His sideways
          look told her he'd heard the other agents gossiping about her methods.
        </p>
        <p>"It's simple. Enemies don't talk. Friends do."</p>
        <p>"So we pretend to be all friendly? He's not going to buy that."</p>
        <p>
          "Of course not. You can't trust somebody who's pretending to be your
          friend. Goodwill has to be sincere, or it will backfire. Nothing's
          sleazier than fake friendship."
        </p>
        <p>
          Evan made a face. "I don't understand how you can do that with an
          enemy. This guy has killed who knows how many of our people - "
        </p>
        <p>
          " - and I've shot down more than a few of his." Her tone hardened, but
          only slightly. "That's called war, Evan. Don't take it personally."
        </p>
        <p>
          "The Empire killed my family." The captain suddenly sounded more like
          a boy than ever. "Maybe you've never lost anyone, but don't tell me
          not to take it personally!"
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk halted. She grabbed the captain's shoulder and backed him against
          the wall. "Don't you ever whine. Don't you ever feel sorry for
          yourself. We've all been through hell, you got that? This is a war,
          not a pity party!"
        </p>
        <p>
          He swallowed, his brown eyes widening as her icy blue gaze stabbed
          into him. "Y-yes, ma'am."
        </p>
        <p>
          "There are two ways you can go through life, kid. Victim, or victor."
          She released him, her voice softening. "I'll let you in on a secret.
          The <i>only</i> difference between those two is mindset. Not
          circumstance. Not outcome. Mindset. If you feel bad for yourself, if
          you blame 'the enemy' or 'luck' or 'the universe' for everything that
          happens to you? Guess what? You've just given up all control over your
          life and handed it to someone else on a silver platter."
        </p>
        <p>He frowned. She could tell he didn't understand.</p>
        <p>
          "If you trip over a MSE droid and break your ankle, what good does
          blaming the droid do? You can get mad at them, but the MSE pathing
          calculations won't change. You'll just break your other ankle next
          time around." She smoothed out the shoulder of his uniform. "No. Take
          responsibility for your fall, learn from it, and pay more attention to
          where you're walking. Ensure it never happens again by taking control.
          Victor, not victim."
        </p>
        <p>"Yes, ma'am." He swallowed.</p>
        <p>
          She sighed. He still didn't get it. Few people did. It was just too
          easy to lay blame and too hard to take responsibility for the bad
          things that happened to oneself.
        </p>
        <p>
          After a few minutes, Evan brightened. "I heard people saying that Zeno
          arrived last night. Maybe we'll catch her in the cafeteria tonight.
          She's got to have stories to tell after being deployed for so long!"
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >A person like Zeno always has stories to tell, but rarely herm
            own.</i
          >
          Rosk tilted her head noncommittally. "I won't be there. I have work to
          wrap up tonight."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Oh, right. You're working late again on that case you never talk
          about? Hey, maybe you should ask Zeno about it. I bet with all her
          experience dealing with agents and double agents and moles that she
          has some interesting insight!"
        </p>
        <p>"It's confidential, captain."</p>
        <p>
          "Sure, but she's a colonel. She got to have higher clearance levels
          than you do, no offense, ma'am."
        </p>
        <p>
          "I'm sure she does. And I'm sure she's busy with her own assignments."
        </p>
        <p>
          "They say she looks a bit like you. You could use that to strike up a
          conversation - " His face fell. "I'm just trying to help. You won't
          talk about that case, but I've seen how annoyed you are after working
          on it every night. You're a workaholic, so I know you're not just
          tired and cranky. It must be a difficult assignment."
        </p>
        <p>
          "You're good at reading me. Well done." She noted how quickly he
          beamed at her praise. He was naïve, an easy mark. It would be years
          before they let him pursue his dream of being a field agent. Zeno
          would like him.
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          She left Evan in the observation station outside of the interview room
          to take notes through the one-way window. Personable, smart, and easy
          to underestimate, he had valuable advantages as an interrogator, but
          his observational skills lacked. He needed to learn, as she also had,
          to see past himself before he could accurately observe others. Nothing
          could invalidate legitimate data faster than assumptions.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>This one's going to take a while</i>. As she entered, Rosk assessed
          the pilot from head to - Well, from head to table, given that he was
          seated behind a metal table, with his restraining cuffs bolted to it.
        </p>
        <p>
          His dark hair sported a precise military cut. He ignored her, jaw
          clenched, his brown gaze boring into the mirror finish of the window
          behind her. Sometimes captives tried to barter or charm their way out,
          but this one clearly had braced himself to resist even the most brutal
          interrogation.
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk took the seat across from him, but she angled it to one side so
          she wasn't directly facing him. Crossing one leg over the other and
          resting one arm over the back of the chair casually, she studied her
          datapad, ignoring him in the same way he chose to ignore her. She
          angled her screen so he couldn't see her studying him through the
          room's cameras.
        </p>
        <p>
          She waited. The faint scrape of metal-on-metal cut through the silence
          as he shifted his restraining cuffs to get more comfortable.
        </p>
        <p>
          She kept waiting. The slightest furrow formed between his eyebrows.
          Finally, he glanced at her. She pretended not to notice.
        </p>
        <p>
          After nearly an hour, he stopped ignoring her. He studied her, first
          furtively, then suspiciously, and then out of boredom. She had
          expected this, given that the bleak, metal walls didn't provide much
          scenery. His attention roamed from her face, to the flash of orange
          chromomite dye peeking through her hair, to the window, and then back.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Do you have a question, lieutenant commander?" She rocked her chair
          back on two legs and rolled her head over to look at him expectantly.
          "Or are you just going to stare holes through me while I work?"
        </p>
        <p>"I have nothing to say to you." He averted his gaze coldly.</p>
        <p>
          "Right. That's what I thought." She wagged the datapad at him, leaning
          back farther to put her feet on the table. Her boot heels clonked
          ungraciously against the metal. "And so, if you don't mind, I'd
          appreciate it if you just let me work in peace. I was hoping for a bit
          of qui - et!"
        </p>
        <p>She had leaned too far, and with a crash, she tumbled backward.</p>
        <p>
          The door swished open immediately, and Evan burst in. "Ma'am! Are you
          okay?"
        </p>
        <p>
          From the floor, Rosk giggled at the absurdity of it. "Yeah, captain,
          I'm fine. Unless you got a cure for an utter lack of grace."
        </p>
        <p>
          He looked uncomfortable at her lack of dignity before the Imperial
          pilot. Taking her hand, he pulled her upright. "Are you sure you're
          alright?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yes, thank you, captain." Rosk dusted herself off. "As you were."
        </p>
        <p>He eyed her with uncertainty before leaving.</p>
        <p>
          The Imperial pilot studied her with disdain. "You're a disgrace. You
          have no discipline."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Pff!" She tossed her head indignantly, but when she couldn't come up
          with a good retort, she shrugged in sheepish defeat. "Eh. You're
          right. I spent enough time in the cockpit to know I'm no match for a
          TIE Defender pilot. I was a disgrace, as you say. Why do you think I
          don't fly anymore?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Are you drunk?" He stared at her for several minutes, as if unable to
          make sense of her.
        </p>
        <p>
          "I don't drink." She'd learned a long time ago that her mouth could
          run off and make an idiot out of her without any sort of inebriation
          required. Why add loss of self-control and inhibitions to the mix?
        </p>
        <p>"You're not even qualified to interrogate anybody, are you?"</p>
        <p>
          "What, like stabbing needles under your fingernails?" She snorted,
          righting her chair and turning it backwards so she could straddle it
          and rest her arms across the back of it. "What's the point? You're not
          going to talk, and what do I want with a bloody mess? Plus if I
          accidentally kill you, it's a butt-load of paperwork, which I hate."
        </p>
        <p>
          She pulled up a form on the datapad and slid it across the table to
          his shackled hands. "But since you like discipline and proper process
          so much, why don't you fill out this requisition form? I need a
          vocabulator compatible with an R2 model astromech. I've filled out
          like fifteen of them. Nobody seems to have any."
        </p>
        <p>
          His left eyebrow arched as if of its own volition. "You really want an
          astromech yammering in your ear?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Sure. Well, no." She made a face and scratched her head. "Eh, it's
          complicated. I'm cobbling together salvaged parts to make a body for a
          droid memory core I rescued years ago. KX series."
        </p>
        <p>
          "A battle droid Arakyd rebranded as a security droid?" He grunted. "In
          an R2 body? With a vocoder? You're never going to hear the end of
          that."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Budget's too tight for the New Republic to spare a functional droid
          for 'personal use'. I couldn't even find a spare astromech. Best I
          could get was a head blasted apart by one of your friends. It’s not
          a lot, but I’ve got a plan. I bummed a couple of micro-replusorlifts
          off a guy in maintenance. Just got to figure out how to hook them up.
          Anyway, that's the least of my problems." Rosk grinned, resting her
          chin on her arms. "The core got double imprinted. Technically a
          manufacturing defect, I guess? So it's a KX with medical droid
          programming. I can't tell the boops and the beeps apart, so I need the
          vocabulator to understand what's going on in there."
        </p>
        <p>"Why bother? Just wipe it."</p>
        <p>
          "I was working quality control at Arakyd at the time. I sent it back
          twice for wiping." She tapped her temple. "But they say two heads are
          better than one. Somehow it hid some of its memory clusters from the
          wipes. After that, I figured it earned the right to not be sent to
          recycling, so I smuggled it out."
        </p>
        <p>
          Disbelief filled his voice. "You <i>stole</i> from a company that
          fills military contracts for the Galactic Empire?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Sure. Why not?" She laughed and rolled her eyes. "What's a death mark
          or two, right? Yeah, yeah, alright, it was stupid. I guess you
          wouldn't know anything about doing stupid stuff, being Lieutenant
          Commander Discipline and all."
        </p>
        <p>
          She heard him draw a breath. His eyes held the spark of someone
          formulating a response, but he looked away at the last moment.
        </p>
        <p>
          She waved a dismissive hand. "I know you can't tell me anything.
          That's fine. Look, it's getting late, and I've got places to be. I'll
          have someone take you back to your room. Get some rest. You have a
          long day of being bored ahead of you."
        </p>
        <p>His gaze followed her as she stood up.</p>
        <p>
          "I'll see you later. That is, unless I get pulled from your case, in
          which case, you'll have a lovely, uptight individual prying at you
          with every trick in the book." She saw his face hardened. "Don't
          worry, we aren't actually allowed to torture anyone, so . . . yeah,
          whatever. See ya!"
        </p>
        <p>. . .</p>
        <p>
          "What was that?" A flabbergasted Evan chased after Rosk in the
          corridor. "With all due respect, of course, ma'am."
        </p>
        <p>
          "That's how you get people to talk, captain." She stifled a smile,
          entertained by his expression.
        </p>
        <p>
          "By rolling around on the floor and talking his ear off? It seemed
          like he did a better job of interrogating you than you did of him!"
          The youth's lack of tact reminded her of her own, and she found it
          refreshing. "You just told him - "
        </p>
        <p>
          "Falling over was an accident, but who cares? Evan, Imperial troops
          live with intimidation every day. It doesn't work on them. The less
          intimidating I am, the more he'll let his guard down." She stepped
          aside, seeing another MSE droid and several officers headed their way.
          "I told him the truth, yes. So what?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "But you told him about our interrogation techniques. If he knows we
          aren't allowed to resort to torture - "
        </p>
        <p>
          "Then he'll feel smug and safe." Rosk halted to salute the passing
          officers. "We can't scare him into giving up information, so why even
          try?"
        </p>
        <p>"But - " Evan searched for words.</p>
        <p>"Don't waste effort pursuing a path of guaranteed failure."</p>
        <p>
          "Yes, ma'am." He frowned unhappily at his datapad. "But what do I put
          in the report?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "You put down exactly what you observed, the conclusions you drew, and
          why. Nothing more, nothing less."
        </p>
        <p>"Isn't that going to get you into trouble with Colonel Amesh?"</p>
        <p>
          "The consequences of my actions are my concern, captain, not yours.
          The cameras recorded everything anyway, so make sure your report is
          accurate and unbiased. If you're always on the side of truth, the
          truth will always be on your side."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Uh . . . Yes, ma'am." He didn't look convinced, but he took notes.
        </p>
        <p>
          "By the way, captain, I'm sorry, but I'm going to need your help on a
          case tonight." She slowed, stopping in front of a vending machine. As
          she thumbed a handful of credcoins into the slot, she watched Evan's
          face in the reflection of the transparisteel window.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Tonight? But Zeno - " His face went from disappointment to curiosity.
          "You said your case is above my clearance."
        </p>
        <p>
          "It is. So you're going to be helping me with an adjacent personnel
          file." Rosk gazed through the window at the rows of candy, snacks, and
          drinks for a moment. She tapped in a handful of selections.
        </p>
        <p>
          "So not the person you're investigating, but someone who had contact
          with them?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yes. This man." As she waited for the items to get pushed into the
          delivery box, she pulled up the file on her datapad and showed it to
          him.
        </p>
        <p>
          He squinted at the small letters, steadying the datapad with his hand
          so he could read it. "Jack McCauley?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yes." With a swipe of her finger, she transferred the file to his
          datapad. Then she deposited a bundle of snacks and drinks into his
          arms. "So apologies for the overtime, but hey, dinner's on me."
        </p>
        <p>"Yes, ma'am!"</p>
        <p>
          One day, maybe he'd be cunning enough to see she had an ulterior
          motive.
        </p>
        <p>
          Being a field agent wasn't a cool action holovid - it was a game of
          manipulation and misinformation. Rosk stuck to data and interrogations
          for good reason. Evan was right about one thing, though. Zeno was an
          expert at her craft. She had collecting impressionable young pawns
          down to an art, and Rosk didn't want Evan anywhere near her.
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          Battle of Endor +18 days<br />
          Sullust system<br />
          CRC <i>Veracity</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          "Hello again!" Rosk tossed off a chipper wave as she entered the
          interview room the following day. "I'm back, Lieutenant Commander
          Discipline! And guess what I - "
        </p>
        <p>"Jock."</p>
        <p>
          "Hyuh?" She momentarily froze as she reached for her chair. "What?
          Your name's Jock?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "No." The Imperial's mouth twisted slightly. Amusement? Disdain? "But
          you can call me that."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Sure thing, Jock." Shrugging, Rosk slouched into her chair and kicked
          back, resting her boots on the table again, this time more careful
          about how far she tipped the chair. She repeated her tactic from the
          day before, pulling out her datapad and ignoring him.
        </p>
        <p>
          "You never introduced yourself." Apparently he didn't want to be
          ignored today. "Typical manners I'd expect from a Rebel."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Right. Sorry about that. Name's Rosk." She returned her gaze to the
          datapad in her lap.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Your insignia says you're a major, though you hardly act like one."
          He snorted. "I guess they hand out promotions to just anyone."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Pretty much." She swung her feet down and faced him properly, setting
          the datapad on the table and folding her hands in front of her. "Major
          Rosk Vikeron."
        </p>
        <p>"Hey, look who learned feet don't belong on the table."</p>
        <p>
          "I'm sorry. Did we get off on the wrong foot? You know I was a pilot,
          right? I'm not really a boots-on-the-ground type."
        </p>
        <p>
          He made a face. "Your humor is just as refined as your manners, I
          see."
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk grinned unapologetically. "Better get used to it. You're stuck
          with me, pal, because you ain't gonna cough up any good info, and I
          ain't got anything better to do."
        </p>
        <p>
          "So you <i>are</i> authorized to torture prisoners." He made a face
          and leaned back. "Just my luck."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Well, if that's how you see it, you better give up now, because I can
          bust out bad jokes all day long." Smirking in anticipation, she leaned
          back. "There was once a construction worker who had this nifty
          collapsible ladder. He always took his ladder to work. But one day,
          tragedy struck."
        </p>
        <p>"You don't say. Were you in charge of equipment maintenance?"</p>
        <p>
          She stuck her tongue out at him. "No. His ladder . . . it fell down on
          the job."
        </p>
        <p>"That's the punchline?"</p>
        <p>"Yep!"</p>
        <p>He sighed.</p>
        <p>
          "But wait!" She waved a finger at him. "There's more. The next day,
          the guy has to use the company's ladder. It's a step ladder, and a lot
          shorter than his old one. So he gets to the top and sees that warning
          sticker. You know, the one on the tool tray that says 'Don't Step
          Here'? Yeah, well he reads that and he says . . . 'You can't tell me
          what to do! You're not my <i>real</i> ladder! Get it? Because it's a
          <i>step</i> ladder. Like a stepfather.' "
        </p>
        <p>He sighed even louder. "Really? That's the best you've got?"</p>
        <p>
          "Anyway, tragedy struck the poor fellow again. You know what the
          coroner's report said? 'Tried climbing the corporate ladder, but he
          went one step too far.' "
        </p>
        <p>
          "Look, are you going to shoot me now or later? Because if it's all the
          same, just end me here."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Sorry." A broad grin stretched across Rosk's face. "I can't shoot a
          man of your caliber."
        </p>
        <p>He gave her a sour look.</p>
        <p>"You know, because you wouldn't fit in any of my slugthrowers."</p>
        <p>
          He closed his eyes, muttering under his breath. Finally, he tried to
          save himself with a distraction. "Was your requisition accepted?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Oh. Yes! I got it approved last night. Paperwork is slow, but it
          speeds up remarkably when you tell jokes bad enough to make people
          want to get rid of you." She flashed a grin.
        </p>
        <p>
          He made a face. "I can sympathize with whatever poor sucker you
          bullied into signing that form."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yep, yep. Around these parts we run on puns and caf." Rosk tapped her
          wrist chronometer. "Speaking of which, it's almost lunch. Can I get
          you - "
        </p>
        <p>
          Her datapad dinged as a new message alert came in, and she checked it.
          "Oh! Sweet! Shipment came in ahead of schedule. Here's hoping some of
          those parts actually work this time! Gotta run. See ya!"
        </p>
        <p>As she stepped through the door, two words followed her out:</p>
        <p>"Good luck."</p>
        <p>She smiled. <i>Progress!</i></p>
        <p>. . .</p>
        <p>
          Rosk pushed through the door to her tiny quarters, hugging a shipping
          container. It didn't really feel like home, since repeated deployments
          here and there and yonder kept her feeling like a transient, but with
          the lighting set to a buttery hue and a fluffy lavender comforter
          thrown over her bunk, it at least passed for "cozy".
        </p>
        <p>
          Plopping down on the floor, she hastily opened the box. A flimsiplast
          note greeted her.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >Major Vikeron:
            <p>
              Here are the couplings and adapters you asked for. I can't
              guarantee they'll work, given I pulled them out of the scrap heap
              headed for recycling, but you said anything was better than
              nothing.
            </p>
            <p>
              Also, you're in luck! I found an astromech-compatible vocabulator
              on a back shelf. Whether that's good luck or bad luck is your
              call, but let's just say the last person who added this mod to
              their little backseat buddy brought it back after two days.
              Something about incessant screaming and surprisingly foul
              language.
            </p>
            <p>Don't say I didn't warn you!</p>
            <p>
              ~ Lieutenant Courtner, A-wing Flight Maintenance Chief, Renegade
              Wing
            </p></i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          "Aw, yes!" Ignoring the warning entirely, Rosk upended the shipping
          container on the floor and dug through the grimy contents and packing
          material with enthusiasm. "MD-KX, you're finally getting a voice!"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Boop beepuuu-b-b-b-blaaaaart!" From where it lay on her bunk, the
          disembodied R2 head uttered a series of noises Rosk could only imagine
          would translate to "surprisingly foul language".
        </p>
        <p>
          "Hey, I know it's taken me years to get you into a body, alright? Just
          be glad I didn't send you to get melted down when I had the chance at
          Arakyd."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Bbrt-t-t-t." The subdued chitter could have been either an apology or
          a scathing amount of surly sass. Rosk had never learned to understand
          Droidspeak, having never flown with one. R-22's didn't even have room
          for a full-sized helmet, let alone an astromech unit!
        </p>
        <p>
          Pulling out her spanner, she grabbed the R2 head off her bunk and sat
          on the floor, surrounded by the bits and bobs she'd just acquired.
          Taking a deep breath, she sighed. Nothing beat the smell of grease,
          metal, and fresh electronics.
        </p>
        <p>
          Sniffing it again, she frowned. Fresh might be the wrong term.
          <i>Ooh, that's not good.</i> She winced at another scent. That
          coupling had seen too many battles.
        </p>
        <p>
          She grinned at the head. "Nothing beats the smell of fried
          electronics!"
        </p>
        <p>"Boo-blattt-beep!" MD-KX did not agree.</p>
        <p>
          "You hush. I've got to get back to work, but tonight I'll be back to
          give you a few upgrades."
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          "I'm back!" Rosk barged into the interview room, carrying a steaming
          cup of caf in each hand. "Did Evan fetch you some lunch? I told him -
          "
        </p>
        <p>
          A sandwich sat untouched on the table, still wrapped in flimsiplast
          that sported the ship cafeteria's logo.
        </p>
        <p>
          Jock snorted. "You really think I'd fall for that? A sandwich laced
          with truth serum? Huh!"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Truth serum? Like we're allowed to use that! Like we even have the
          budget for it!" She smacked the cups of caf down and tapped the
          sandwich. "Are you going to eat that or what?"
        </p>
        <p>He lifted his nose.</p>
        <p>
          "Excellent." Rosk tore open the wrapper and started stuffing her face,
          washing the sandwich down with caf between bites. "Didn't have time to
          grab lunch. I'm starving. Look, if you don't want your caf either, let
          me know before it gets cold. Wasting caf is a crime, if you ask me."
        </p>
        <p>
          Before she'd gotten halfway through the sandwich, the door opened
          behind her and Evan's nervous face peeked in.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Um, ma'am. The colonel is here to see you." Evan's rigid posture
          raised a red flag, but Rosk merely nodded.
        </p>
        <p>
          "See you later, Jock. Or not." She shrugged at the Imperial pilot.
          "Depends how hard I get chewed out."
        </p>
        <p>
          Jock approximated a wave by lifting his right hand a few centimeters -
          which was all the restraints would allow. "Don't do anything stupid."
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          "What the hell are you doing in there?" Colonel Amesh laid into Rosk
          the moment the interview room door closed.
        </p>
        <p>
          Evan stood back nervously, pretending to be absorbed in the console
          that monitored Jock's vitals. Rosk stood her ground. She'd clashed
          with Amesh before and didn't appreciate the micromanagement. "You're
          interrupting my work, sir."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Work?" The Duros scoffed. "Making a fool of yourself in front of the
          enemy? Did you forget that I review the recordings of these sessions?"
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk smiled faintly, her jaw clenching, but she held her tongue.
          Making a fool of herself in front of the enemy was all she'd ever
          accomplished, but at least in this job it saved people instead of
          getting them killed.
        </p>
        <p>
          "I don't think you realize the gravity of the situation, major!" Amesh
          waved a hand at the pilot through the observation window. "Your
          <i>pal</i> likely holds vital information to the next Imperial attack,
          and all you're doing is <i>telling jokes?</i>"
        </p>
        <p>"Yes."</p>
        <p>"There are lives on the line! This is no joking matter."</p>
        <p>
          "Then perhaps you should allow torture and truth serum and all the
          lovely methods the Galactic Empire uses. Interrogation droids. Sensory
          deprivation. Electroshock. Drugs." Rosk kept her voice flat and
          emotionless. "But even if you did, it would take days to get a man
          like him talking. He's been trained to resist all those methods, and
          what's in our handbook as 'acceptable' to the New Republic . . .
          that's a better joke than any I could come up with."
        </p>
        <p>
          The huge, orange eyes narrowed dangerously. "Major, you are seriously
          close to stepping out of line."
        </p>
        <p>
          "We train our people to feed interrogators a cover story, and
          eventually, if necessary, give up the truth piece by piece to prolong
          our lives in enemy hands. The Empire teaches their people to die
          before giving up any information, the sooner the better, really. Do
          you understand the disadvantage we're at? It's day two, and I already
          have him talking. Maybe he's not saying what you want to hear, but
          he's talking."
        </p>
        <p>For once, Amesh said nothing.</p>
        <p>
          "I have lives to save, colonel." Rosk allowed her lips to curve in the
          barest suggestion of a smile. "Instead of reviewing my interrogation
          footage, I recommend you review my record of results - the ones you
          said you couldn't argue with. Sir."
        </p>
        <p>
          The colonel seemed about to snarl at her, but he took a breath and
          straightened his uniform instead. "Carry on, major."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Thank you, sir." She tilted her head with a graciousness that barely
          stopped short of insolence.
        </p>
        <p>
          As Colonel Amesh left, Rosk felt Evan's eyes staring into her back.
          She turned to confirm her suspicions. "Captain?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Ma'am! You could get into so much trouble talking to a superior like
          that."
        </p>
        <p>
          "He's not our superior, Evan. He just has a higher rank." She sighed
          and rested her hands on her hips. "Chamtal Amesh transferred in a few
          months ago, barely before you arrived. He hasn't even passed through
          officer's school, because back then, we didn't have one. We've barely
          gone from a rebellion to an actual governing entity, and the influx of
          recruits and support we've gotten is amazing, but everyone's as green
          as spring sprouts except for a few of us."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Are . . ." Evan swallowed, glancing at the doorway to the corridor as
          afraid the Duros would reappear any second. "Are you implying the
          colonel is . . ."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Incompetent? Sure. It's nothing personal. We're all incompetent when
          we're new to a position." Rosk rested her hand on the display tracking
          Jock's heart rate and pupil dilation. "All we can do is learn as fast
          as we can and rely on the veterans around us. A subordinate with
          experience can be your greatest teacher if you keep your ego in
          check."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yes, ma'am." Again, the captain took a note on his pad. "But he still
          has the power to demote you or reprimand you. That's not going to
          happen, right?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "The last time I deserved a demotion, I personally requested to be
          ranked down, and I was still denied. But if he wants to try, let him."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Ah, the Torque mission." She had mentioned it once in passing, and
          like any good agent, he had remembered that detail about her. He
          looked up after she didn't move. "Aren't you going back in?"
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk watched the Imperial pilot through the one-way window. Devouring
          the other half of the sandwich like a ravenous rancor, he had
          apparently decided she hadn't poisoned it. "No. Let Jock wonder what
          had happened to me."
        </p>
        <p>
          He frowned, puzzled. "But you heard the colonel. He wants information
          out of this pilot ASAP."
        </p>
        <p>
          "I'm aware. I read your report on McCauley. Good job. But there's
          someone you mentioned in the notes. A Zeltron. Gemilan. Take the rest
          of the day and spend it digging up everything you can on her."
        </p>
        <p>"What? But ma'am! Isn't this pilot the priority?"</p>
        <p>
          "Get me a report on Gemilan by tonight." She took his datapad. "I'll
          finish up the paperwork here. Have Jock transferred back to his cell
          in a few hours, but don't let anyone talk to him. If he asks
          questions, don't answer. This guy is mine, got it? I don't want Amesh
          getting the bright idea of sending in a second agent and undermining
          all the progress I've made."
        </p>
        <p>"Y - yes, ma'am."</p>
        <p>
          She needed time to think about how to proceed on both cases. Her
          thankless job required a certain amount of mercilessness paired with
          an equal amount of mercy. The better she got at one half of the
          equation, the harder the other half became, and sometimes . . .
        </p>
        <p>
          She sighed. Why did she find it easier to talk to the enemy than to
          her own people? During the long walk to her office, she pondered the
          uncomfortable question.
        </p>
        <p>
          It wasn't like she lacked commitment to the New Republic cause. She'd
          made that decision ages ago and never looked back.
        </p>
        <p>
          It wasn't like she hadn't made some acquaintances during her current
          posting, but intelligence operatives . . . well, how could she trust
          the sincerity of people trained to deceive and manipulate? During
          small moments in the break room or in passing, she could joke with
          them like old friends, but she didn't hang out with any of them during
          her free time.
        </p>
        <p>
          And Evan . . . well, she couldn't relax around a subordinate. He
          needed a mentor, a role model. No one wanted to find out the person
          they looked up to had their own problems. An officer had to show
          certainty and conviction, even in the worst of times.
          <i>Especially</i> in the worst of times. It gave stability and hope to
          the people lower on the chain of command, and that - as she knew all
          too well - could change the course of a battle.
        </p>
        <p>
          No, it was a bad idea to get too chummy with a subordinate, even if
          Evan was the only person she trusted to have her back.
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          Battle of Endor +19 days<br />
          Sullust system<br />
          CRC <i>Veracity</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          The next morning, Rosk entered the interview room and sat down,
          primly, without a word.
        </p>
        <p>Jock's brown eyes swept over her blank face. "What happened?"</p>
        <p>
          He cared. Some tiny part of him had gotten curious about her personal
          woes, and every part of her training told her to capitalize on that.
          If she played on his sympathy, could she get information out of him?
          Would it save lives?
        </p>
        <p>
          No. Her only skill was sincerity and goodwill. That's why she would
          never fit in with the other agents. Manipulation, seduction, threats,
          and trickery - she failed at them all. She couldn't fish for sympathy
          without coming off fake.
        </p>
        <p>
          And it was then - with that simple observation of a fact that had been
          in front of her face the whole time - that she realized she hated her
          job.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Even the 'Rebellion' has limited room for rebelling." Deliberately,
          she propped her boots up on the desk once more. "With my luck, maybe
          they'll ship me back to the Torque system."
        </p>
        <p>
          He chuckled. "What, you don't get along with Hutts? I can't blame you.
          I saw the place once. For being the sector capital of the Gordian
          Reach, it wasn't much to look at."
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>I wasn't looking at the Hutts, or their fetid planet.</i> "I'm
          surprised the Hutts let Imperial pilots anywhere near their
          territory."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Probably what the Rebel scouts we vaped thought, too. But even the
          Hutts know better than to argue when you have a Death Star in tow a
          few days behind you."
        </p>
        <p>
          Torque system. Territory of Bwahl the Hutt. Neighbor to Yavin system.
          Graveyard.
        </p>
        <p>
          Rebel and Imperial alike typically skirted around Torque. A few days
          before the Battle of Yavin, there had only been two military units in
          that area. One of them had been her R-22 forward scouts, which meant
          this man . . . She froze.
        </p>
        <p>
          By some cruel trick of fate or coincidence, she had met this man
          before.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >Breathe. You are the master of your emotions, not the other way
            around.</i
          >
          She smiled stiffly. "Let me guess. They never saw you coming."
        </p>
        <p>
          "They scattered like - " He broke off from what started as a
          condescending gloat and shrugged instead. "No discipline, lax
          training. Their leadership was to blame."
        </p>
        <p>
          "You are correct." She wanted to make a snarky comment about who could
          have been to blame for the abject failure of defending the Death
          Stars. She knew better. She wanted to mourn her lost squadron. She
          knew better. She wanted to shoot this man who had participated in the
          murder of her wingmen. She knew better.
        </p>
        <p>
          Only this man and herself knew exactly what went down in the Torque
          system, days prior to the arrival of the Death Star at Yavin. He knew
          the truth, as did she, and there was nothing left to be said on the
          subject that would make any difference to anyone.
        </p>
        <p>
          Losing control of her emotions had cost her everything back then. It
          wouldn't happen again.
        </p>
        <p>
          A heavy silence filled the room. It permeated the corners like toxic
          gas waiting to suffocate her, but she refused to break. Had he guessed
          by now that they had shared that battlefield? Probably not. He
          wouldn't think anyone had survived that massacre.
        </p>
        <p>"So, how's that droid coming?"</p>
        <p>
          It took several seconds for the question to reach her, because she was
          light-years away. Once her brain finally processed it, it caught her
          by surprise. Had the merciful change of subject been intentional? Had
          he noticed her suddenly terse demeanor?
        </p>
        <p>
          Or was he merely well-trained in counter-interrogation, trying to
          establish a rapport between them?
        </p>
        <p>
          "Fine. Sure." She forced herself to breathe. "Yeah. I got the parts I
          needed. Installed some of them, but I didn't have time to boot it up."
        </p>
        <p>"Will you bring it by sometime?"</p>
        <p>
          She lifted an eyebrow. "You seemed to think it was a disaster in the
          making. Now you want to see it?"
        </p>
        <p>"Call it morbid curiosity."</p>
        <p>
          "Pfff." Even though she scoffed, she recognized her chance to derail
          her brain from Torque and Jock's connection to it. Standing up, she
          stretched and then shrugged. "Sure, why not. Don't go anywhere!"
        </p>
        <p>He groaned as she left.</p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          "Ma'am?" Evan backed out of her way. "Is that one of the guys who - "
        </p>
        <p>She stopped and waited for him to finish, but he did not.</p>
        <p>
          He swallowed. "Are you okay? You could hand the case off to another
          agent."
        </p>
        <p>
          "I'm a professional, captain, not some weepy-eyed recruit." She
          replied without hesitation. "I'm fine, this is my case, and I'm not
          going to push my work onto someone else. Keep an eye on him."
        </p>
        <p>
          On her way back to her room, she did not take the lift. She counted
          her steps. Every fourth step, she took a breath. She had a job to do,
          and she would do it. There was no point questioning whether she could
          get information out of Jock or not. She had to, therefore, she would.
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          " - designation is inaccurate." MD-KX sailed into the interview room
          after Rosk. "Your pronunciation of it implies I am a medical droid.
          Multiple medical droids, to be precise. I have no
          m-m-m-m-medic-c-c-can I be of service? Is someone injured?"
        </p>
        <p>
          As Rosk took her seat, Jock's dark eyes followed the floating R2-D2
          head. A laser cannon had lobotomized the R2 unit and the rough repairs
          left the dome with a scarred and almost deranged appearance. "So you
          weren't kidding."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Like I ever kid about anything!" She rolled her eyes, waving a
          dramatic hand. "Alright, let's settle this. If I can't call you MD-KX,
          what should I be calling you?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "I-I-I-I am KX-4J1, a security droid manufactured by Arakyd
          Industries." The dome's optical sensor rotated to stare at Jock. The
          red light below the sensor flickered ominously. "Does this prisoner
          need to be disposed of? I am designed to provide m-m-m-many medical
          services."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Wait, wait. KX-4J1, you shut up for a moment." Rosk pointed at the
          droid. "You. Who are you?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "I am capable of many forms of medical services and diagnostics. I
          appear to be missing any form of designation. My software is flagged
          as 'beta'."
        </p>
        <p>"So you aren't a security droid?"</p>
        <p>
          "Not at all! Do you require medical assistance?" The dome spun around
          to take in the whole room. "I do not have the appendages necessary to
          perform surgery. I'm afraid my assistance is limited to advice and
          diagnosis. Would you like a check up?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "No, thanks, Doc." So she wasn't dealing with a droid with two sets of
          skills. She was dealing with two entirely separate droids imprinted
          onto one memory core. "KX-4J1, do you have any interrogation
          routines?"
        </p>
        <p>
          The dome stared at Jock again, glancing down at his restraints. "I do
          not. However, I am authorized to terminate any entity that presents a
          threat. Does this human male present a threat?"
        </p>
        <p>Jock gave the droid a dirty look.</p>
        <p>"Calm down. He's not a threat and you don't even have a weapon."</p>
        <p>
          "Assessing hardware. . . ." One of the lights flickered. "I do not
          have a weapon."
        </p>
        <p>"See?" Rosk stuck out her tongue, but the droid wasn't finished.</p>
        <p>
          "I <i>am</i> a weapon. There are at least fifteen ways I could
          dispatch this meatbag right now. Awaiting orders."
        </p>
        <p>
          "No killing anyone! Yeesh." Rosk shook her head. "I guess the
          rebranding from battle droid to security droid didn't include software
          updates. From now on, I'm calling you 'Jobber'."
        </p>
        <p>Recognition sparked in Jock's eyes. "Rebel lingo for 'assassin'?"</p>
        <p>Rosk shrugged. "He acts like one."</p>
        <p>
          "Running psychological assessment." The droid's processor light
          flickered again. "Entity known as 'Jobber' exhibits homicidal
          tendencies. I would recommend caution. And therapy."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Thanks for pointing out the obvious, Doc." Rolling her eyes, Rosk
          made a note on her datapad. "I'm going to have to set up different
          voices for both of you. At least you're starting to learn to not talk
          over each other."
        </p>
        <p>
          "You mean you aren't planning to throw the whole mess into a trash
          compactor?" Jock's restraints rattling against the table and floor as
          he shifted restlessly. Rosk could sympathize. He'd been sitting in
          that hard, metal chair for hours.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Goodness! Running psychological a-a-a-a-I dare you try it, meatbag!"
          If the droid could have bristled, it would have. "The time for
          psychological assessments is over, medical droid! The meatbag's words
          demonstrate violent intent, which qualifies as threatening behavior!
          Engaging 'subdue with extreme prejudice' protocols!"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Doc, Jobber, calm down." Rosk caught the floating dome as it tried to
          fly over the table. "No one is throwing anyone into the trash, and no
          one is subduing, dispatching, or disposing of anyone. Maybe you should
          just wait outside."
        </p>
        <p>
          Bodily pushing the droid out, Rosk closed the door behind it and
          returned to her seat. Fortunately, Jock spared her the burden of
          finding something else to talk about.
        </p>
        <p>
          "If your mechanical aptitude is representative of the rest of the
          Rebels, it's only a matter of time before your entire fleet falls
          apart."
        </p>
        <p>
          "As a matter of fact, I used to be part of the maintenance crew, and
          I'm not gonna lie - on our budget, resourceful jury-rigging got more
          ships off the flight deck than precision engineering." She leaned over
          the table on one elbow. "But I'll tell you what, if our ships are held
          together with hope and silver engine tape, yours are held together
          with <i>tie</i> wire."
        </p>
        <p>
          Not even a glimmer of amusement showed on his face. "Your jokes are as
          bad as your repair skills. Do I have to sit through hours of abysmal
          puns <i>again?</i>"
        </p>
        <p>"A pun a day keeps the blues away."</p>
        <p>"And puns all day long keep everyone away."</p>
        <p>
          She only grinned. "Why do you think you're chained to the table in a
          locked room? I'd call you a captive audience."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Two can play that game." Shifting stiffly in his chair, he stretched
          his neck and shoulders, as if warming up for a fight. "Three
          Gamorreans walk into a bar."
        </p>
        <p>She waited.</p>
        <p>"You'd think the second two would have at least ducked."</p>
        <p>"Oh!" She crossed her arms. "And you dare call my jokes bad."</p>
        <p>
          "Hey, don't blame me. I'm justified in the use of lethally bad humor
          because it's a case of self-defense." He grinned. "Also, I'm getting
          the feeling you're having a bad day."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Oh, so you want to finish me off? Put me out of my misery with that
          awful punch line?" Rosk snorted, trying to gloss over his concern with
          pure sarcasm. "Thanks! You really know how to cheer a girl up."
        </p>
        <p>
          "That's what your mom said." He laughed at her deadpan expression.
          "Sorry. Barracks humor dies hard."
        </p>
        <p>"Weak. Is that the best you've got?"</p>
        <p>
          "Hmph." Despite his offended huff, Jock smiled. "You're one to talk."
        </p>
        <p>
          She didn't miss the irony of it. An Imperial prisoner, her
          interrogation subject, was trying to cheer <i>her</i> up.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Okay, okay." He tried again." Why did the Duros regret going to the
          all-you-can-eat buffet?"
        </p>
        <p>
          She rolled her eyes. "Because his eyes were bigger than his stomach.
          Heard it a million times."
        </p>
        <p>
          He hadn't a clue what he'd done. She wanted to hate him, yet her
          entire approach, objective, and philosophy from the beginning . . .
          had been to make friends with him. She'd told Evan over and over.
          <i
            >If you like them enough, sincerely, it breaks down their
            resistances. Prisoners are going through their worst imagined hell,
            being at the mercy of their enemy, so when you show them genuine
            friendship in their lowest hour, it’s a sucker punch they never
            see coming.</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          Yet here she was. Her plan had worked as expected, but somehow she was
          the one feeling sucker punched. She was the one being shown friendship
          while down.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Have you heard? The Mining Guild's relationship with the Galactic
          Empire is on the rocks."
        </p>
        <p>
          She facepalmed to stifle a snicker. "Okay, you had no right to make
          fun of my humor if you're just going to make jokes right out of my
          wheelhouse."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Speaking of wheels . . ." He smirked at her break in composure. "The
          Mining Guild has a space station called the <i>Wheel</i>."
        </p>
        <p>"I'm aware."</p>
        <p>
          "So my wingman says to me, 'They better not side with the Rebels!
          Otherwise, we'll make sure they have to reinvent the <i>Wheel!</i>' "
          He shrugged flippantly. "Don't blame me. These are all his jokes
          anyway. He was constantly coming up with the punniest quips he could
          imagine about every place we went."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Sure, sure." She beckoned like a challenging fighter. "Lay it on me.
          Let's see what you got."
        </p>
        <p>
          "One day he said to me, 'I just know I'm going to find love at our
          next stop.' So I said, 'What makes you think that?' " Jock leaned
          forward. "And he said, 'It's Sullust-ful planet."
        </p>
        <p>
          She giggled at the stupidity of it. "I think your pal and I would get
          along great."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yeah. You would." The pilot's expression faded into seriousness. "Is
          he here?"
        </p>
        <p>
          The sudden question pulled her back to the reality of the situation.
          The New Republic had captured him after destroying the Imperial space
          station <i>Ferro City</i>. He'd been stationed there with his whole
          squadron, most likely. Of course he wanted to know if his friends were
          still alive. He'd probably been playing along this whole time to
          butter her up for this very question.
        </p>
        <p>
          Normally, if two people were captured together, the interrogators
          would divide them up and play them against each other, using one to
          fact-check the other's story or to manipulate the other into
          compliance. The file Amesh had given her had no such notes, and she
          suspected what that meant.
        </p>
        <p>
          "To be honest, I don't know." It gave her an opening to subtly pry for
          information. "What's his name?"
        </p>
        <p>He hesitated.</p>
        <p>
          "Name, rank, and serial number are hardly classified." Pilots were
          trained to tell the enemy that information up front, yet this man
          hadn't even given her a real first name. "It gives us the option of
          offering a prison-of-war trade with the Empire. You could go home, in
          theory."
        </p>
        <p>
          "He's a senior lieutenant. You would have captured him at the same
          time as me, so if your records are straight at all, it should be easy
          for you to find him." He spoke quietly, with a detached calmness Rosk
          understood well.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Sure. I'll check. But it's going to cost you, because you're right,
          I've had a bad day." <i>And you're about to, too.</i> "Bring on the
          puns."
        </p>
        <p>
          He smiled obligingly. "I wouldn't trust anyone from the Mikaster
          sector."
        </p>
        <p>"Why not?"</p>
        <p>"Derra strange breed."</p>
        <p>
          She chuckled despite herself at the reference to the star system in
          the Mikaster sector, although her mirth died as she remembered that
          the Empire had destroyed a rebel outpost on Derra IV just before the
          Battle of Hoth.
        </p>
        <p>
          "We were flying the other day. I asked if he knew where we were going,
          and he said, 'Nope. Better check Armath.' "
        </p>
        <p>Rosk groaned. "Alright, that's just terrible."</p>
        <p>"You asked for it."</p>
        <p>
          "I did." Sighing, she stood up. "You upheld your end of the bargain,
          so I'll go look for your nameless buddy."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Major Vikeron." His voice stopped her as her hand touched the door
          controls. The door swished aside, but she paused, waiting for Jock to
          finish.
        </p>
        <p>
          He didn't finish, however, and when she turned to glance at him, he
          shook his head. "Never mind."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Does the meatbag need to be dispatched yet?" The floating dome barged
          into the doorway, lights glimmering. "Your vitals indicate stress. Are
          you feeling okay?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "No, Jobber! Yes, Doc." Rosk pushed the droid away and closed the door
          behind her. "You guys let me worry about this. Give me some space,
          alright?"
        </p>
        <p>
          In the observation room, washed in the blue and orange glow from the
          diagnostic displays, Evan jumped up from his station. "Ma'am, I didn't
          want to interrupt, but Colonel Amesh came by earlier. He's getting
          impatient."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Then let him be impatient. Pull up every location Jock just gave us
          and compare them against all of our forces in those areas."
        </p>
        <p>"He gave us locations? I thought those were just jokes."</p>
        <p>
          "Maybe, but he said his wingman made puns about the places they went.
          Makes sense the ones he'd remember best are the ones made recently.
          One referenced Sullust, which is right below us, and two of them are
          from the nearby Mikaster sector."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yes, ma'am." He sat back down and pulled up a holographic star map.
          All the stars sparkled like glitter dust among the glowing blue
          spirals of the galaxy. Evan lit up the locations in orange by tapping
          them one at a time. "He also referenced the <i>Wheel</i>, which is way
          across the galaxy, almost by Yavin and Torque."
        </p>
        <p>
          "And Duros, which is halfway between, but let's face it, that joke's
          been around forever. Probably not a lead at all. Where was
          <i>Ferro City</i>?" She leaned over his shoulder as he brought up the
          records on Jock's capture. "Near Malastare. That's only a short trip
          from here, following the Hydian Way, but Sullust's too big of a target
          for them to attack here again, surely."
        </p>
        <p>
          Evan swept his finger upward, through the glowing, holographic clouds.
          "But Derra isn't much farther away if you head up Hydian."
        </p>
        <p>
          "They already destroyed the outpost we had at Derra IV. I'm not aware
          of any of our forces remaining in the Mikaster sector, but I can't
          keep track of an entire galaxy of military assets." She pointed to a
          nearby planet. "Check Armath."
        </p>
        <p>
          "<i>Better check Armath</i>." Was Jock's wording accidentally
          significant? Intentionally significant?
        </p>
        <p>
          Documents flicked by as Evan searched for any New Republic activity in
          that sector. "I don't see any outposts on Armath. Wait . . . there's a
          Stellar Class orbital starport we recently granted a military
          contract."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Doesn't sound so special. If the Empire hits that, we'll just
          contract another." Rosk straightened, patting Evan's shoulder. "Keep
          digging. I have my own investigation to do."
        </p>
        <p>"Yes, ma'am."</p>
        <p>
          "Doc, Jobber, come with me." Rosk retreated to her office, once again
          using her long walk through the ship to organize her thoughts.
        </p>
        <p>
          The droid drifted behind, only keeping quiet for a few minutes before
          interrupting her introspection. "Rosk, I'm detecting elevated heart
          rate and breathing. Are you quite sure you are feeling okay?"
        </p>
        <p>"Yes! I'm fine!"</p>
        <p>
          "I provide medical services. Lying to me will not help your
          situation."
        </p>
        <p>
          "I don't lie." Rosk glared at the dome. She took pride in her honesty,
          even though it was an admittedly horrible trait to have as an
          interrogator. "Look. I've had some rough times. I made some mistakes.
          Interviewing this guy brought up some strong emotions. Sure, that's
          going to get a physiological response, but I'm not lying when I say
          I'm fine. Get kicked down, get back up, live to fight another day.
          That's how it goes. No matter what happens, I'll be okay."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Perhaps your definition of 'fine' deviates from the one defined in my
          programming. What triggered your 'physiological response'?"
        </p>
        <p>"I don't have time for this, Doc."</p>
        <p>
          "By my calculations, we have another ten standard minutes before
          reaching your destination."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yeah, and I need them to process everything that's happened today.
          Not everyone has a CPU with a blazing-fast clock speed, alright?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "I apologize for my intrusion, then. However, I am obligated to point
          out that talking to someone about traumatic experiences can be
          therapeutic."
        </p>
        <p>"Noted, Doc."</p>
        <p>"Would disposing of the meatbag also be therapeutic?"</p>
        <p>"No, Jobber." <i>Should it be?</i></p>
        <p>
          "Perhaps you might consider some hardware upgrade projects to be
          therapeutic? This body is inexcusably deficient in offensive and
          defensive capabilities."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Perhaps." Despite both droids sharing the same voice, Rosk could
          already tell them apart immediately. It did give her ideas for several
          upgrades she could make, though.
        </p>
        <p>
          Her comlink chirped, and she snatched it out of her pocket. "What did
          you find, captain?"
        </p>
        <p>
          Evan's voice filtered back with a note of urgency.
          <i
            >"I think I know what they're targeting, ma'am. There's a New
            Republic fleet docked at the Armath shipyard. It consists of a
            damaged MC-80B, the</i
          >
          Vigilant,
          <i
            >undergoing repairs, and a brand-new MC-75C, the Sovereignty, which
            is still being fitted and supplied."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          "What sort of defenses do they have? Two Mon Cal cruisers should have
          fighter support of several squadrons each, at least."
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"Should. And they do have a number of squadrons listed, but they
            suffered high casualties in the Battle of Endor. Every squadron only
            has a handful of pilots left. They're in the process of
            consolidating."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          "Consolidating. Meaning they have little to no experience flying with
          each other, people are getting promoted left and right into command
          vacancies they are completely green to, and everyone's dealing with
          the recent loss of their closest friends." Rosk sighed. "They aren't
          prepared for a full-scale surprise attack. Sounds like the perfect
          target."
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"It's the only presence we currently have in that area, if your
            hunch about Jock's jokes is correct."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          Of course, she couldn't ignore the possibility that Jock had
          intentionally led her to a false conclusion. "Alright. Tell Colonel
          Amesh immediately. Be sure to tell him that this lead is a hunch, not
          a concrete fact, okay?"
        </p>
        <p>"Yes, ma'am."</p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          After digging through reports and files, Rosk found herself in the
          medbay, illuminated by the sedate blue glow of a bacta tank. Inside, a
          mostly-naked man floated like a drowned sailor adrift in the sea. He
          looked . . . fine?
        </p>
        <p>
          The 2-1B medical droid supervising Rosk's visit answered her unspoken
          question in a soft monotone, hushed for the sake of other patients
          partitioned off behind curtains. "His injuries were mostly internal."
        </p>
        <p>"Is he going to make it?"</p>
        <p>
          The droid paused. "We can rebuild bodies, ma'am. We can rebuild brain
          matter. But there is more to a sentient being than what we can
          physically reconstruct."
        </p>
        <p>
          Doc appeared from behind Rosk's left shoulder helpfully. "This
          patient's records indicate a reduced state of mental activity."
        </p>
        <p>
          "You mean the meatbag's become a vegetable!" Jobber pulled no punches.
          "I'll never understand the state transitions of you organics."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Please mind your volume." After scolding Jobber, the medical droid
          dipped its head in acknowledgement. "This man is in a coma. We are
          repairing his body, but whether he recovers is beyond our control."
        </p>
        <p>
          "I see." For a minute, Rosk stared at the bacta tank quietly,
          listening to the hushed hum and whir of medical machines in the
          background. Looking at the man inside bothered her on several levels.
          It bothered her that it bothered her.
        </p>
        <p>
          Finally, impetuously, she walked up the transparisteel tube of bacta
          and slammed her palm against it, as one might do if trying to annoy an
          aquarium of fish. "Listen to me, you frakking Imperial scum! You
          better stop hiding. We put effort into saving your sorry hide, so you
          better not waste it, you ingrate! Wake up and face the world!"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Major Vikeron! Please!" The medical droid ushered her away. "There
          are other patients in this ward. Do not disturb them. Yelling will not
          help this man."
        </p>
        <p>
          "You don't know that. You just said you can't fix a coma, so it's
          clearly beyond your expertise. Yelling and screaming is a verified
          method of dragging scared little soldiers back to reality." Rosk
          turned to face the tank again, even as the droid pushed her backwards.
          "Your wing leader is waiting for you. Wake up, flotsam! That's an
          order!"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Major, I'm afraid I must insist you leave, or I will be forced to
          remove you." The medical droid put a metal hand on Rosk's shoulder,
          and its grip tightened enough to remind her that even a medical model
          was strong enough to throw a human out on their ear.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Just you try!" Jobber plowed between them like a wrecking ball. "You
          want a piece of her, you go through me, you doshing screw-brain! I
          will <i>mess you up!</i>"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Ow! Calm down, Jobber." Rosk shoved the floating droid under her arm.
          His over enthusiastic defense had broken the medical droid's grip, but
          it had also clobbered her hard enough to leave her winded and bruised.
          "We're leaving. It's fine."
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk strode out of the medical bay with mixed feelings, and Doc read
          her face immediately. "How are you feeling?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "You tell me, Doc. I just tried to save the life of a man who probably
          helped kill my closest friends." Rosk closed her eyes and drew a
          breath before opening them again. "How am I supposed to feel?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "It's not my job to tell you <i>how</i> to feel. How <i>do</i> you
          feel?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "I don't know. I should relish watching him die. I should be happy
          that when he does, Jock gets to feel the same way I did when I
          survived my squadron. I should laugh in his face as I tell him he just
          blew the operation to assault Armath." Rosk looked away.
        </p>
        <p>
          "I didn't ask what you should feel." Doc persisted. "What are you
          feeling right now?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Confused!" The word burst out of Rosk unexpectedly, bubbled up by all
          the emotions she'd been keeping her foot on recently. "I just don't
          want anyone to lose a friend they don't have to. I like Jock, you
          know? He's from the other side, but he's a decent human being! He was
          just doing what any of us would have done. Does it make me a traitor
          to say that? After what he did to my squad? I hate what he did, but
          why can't I hate <i>him</i>?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "I see." Doc hummed. "Historically, warring factions will 'dehumanize'
          the other side, to use a human-centric term. This is where most
          derogatory names come from, and the purpose that they serve is
          important to morale."
        </p>
        <p>
          "I've seen both sides, Doc. The Empire is made up of ordinary people.
          Every large group has its share of scumbags, of course, but the only
          real difference is that their policies and leaders reward the scumbags
          and strip freedoms from decent people, leading to a faction capable of
          such atrocities that it must be stopped." Rosk took another breath. "I
          will see the Empire put down, even if it costs my life."
        </p>
        <p>
          After a moment of reflection, she continued. "I'm fighting an ideal.
          I'm fighting a process, a practice, a mindset. But to do that, we have
          to kill people, most of whom think they are fighting for the right
          thing, thanks to propaganda. Some of them don't even agree with what
          they're obligated to fight for! It's a cruel joke, isn't it? We have
          to kill good people to stop the bad ones."
        </p>
        <p>
          "I'm not programmed to espouse any particular philosophy." Doc's
          lights flickered. "However, it is important for one's mental wellbeing
          to adhere to one's own philosophy, code of ethics, religious
          standards, or whatever you may choose to call these abstract notions.
          People must find their own answers to such questions, and I believe
          you have just found your answer."
        </p>
        <p>"And what answer is that?"</p>
        <p>
          "Are you obligated to fight the Imperials and kill them in combat?"
        </p>
        <p>"Yes."</p>
        <p>"Are obligated to hate them?"</p>
        <p>
          <i>No.</i> That's what she'd said for years, but now Rosk leaned
          against the wall, taking a long moment to process that question. "What
          about White Squadron? Would they despise me for not hating the men who
          shot them down?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Perhaps you should leave the dead to their own devices and make your
          decisions for yourself." Doc followed up with a shrewd observation.
          "Mental health is determined by your outlook on your life. The
          opinions of others towards you are only a factor if you decide it
          should be. Feeling your squadron would disapprove inclines you to
          condemn yourself because you think they would condemn you . . . but is
          there any benefit to guessing at the opinions of the dead? To hurting
          yourself with assumptions that could be wrong?"
        </p>
        <p>"I guess not."</p>
        <p>
          "Peace of mind comes from doing what <i>you</i> think you should do."
          Doc made a noise like the clearing of a throat. "I am obligated to
          point out, however, that doing what <i>others</i> think you should do
          is occasionally a legal matter, on which I am not programmed to offer
          advice."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Sure." Rosk absently acknowledged the droid's last remark while
          processing the rest of the advice.
        </p>
        <p>
          Doc hadn't finished. "Putting aside your squadron, are you doing what
          you think you should be doing?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "You don't understand, Doc. I can't put aside my squadron. I failed
          them. I owe them - "
        </p>
        <p>"Perhaps what you are actually struggling with is your failure."</p>
        <p>
          "Yeah, I failed. I admit it. I own it." Rosk scowled at the droid.
          "Can we move on?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "That is a question for you to answer, not me." Doc's lights flickered
          again. "A review of your military records suggests that you ran away
          from your failures instead of confronting them. Perhaps that's why
          your current behavior suggests you have not, as you say, 'moved on'."
        </p>
        <p>
          "It's not running away." Jobber butted in. "It's called 'strategic
          retreat'!"
        </p>
        <p>
          "No," Rosk said numbly in realization. "It's only called that if you
          return to fight another day. Otherwise, it's called cowardice."
        </p>
        <p>
          She had always thought of herself as a logical and well-balanced
          person, but that one event continued to bother her long after she had
          done everything to accept it. <i>I ran away. </i>Subconsciously, she
          had known that for years, but looking at it head on for the first time
          hurt.
          <i
            >I transferred to Intel and never looked back. I thought I was
            moving on, but the reason I never looked back was because I was
            afraid to.</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          " 'Courage is not the absence of fear, but rather, the act of not
          letting fear stop you.' " Jobber must have come with a suite of
          military quotes.
        </p>
        <p>
          She straightened her posture and her uniform. She knew what she had to
          do.
        </p>
        <p>
          Her comlink interrupted her resolve, and the moment she answered it,
          Evan's voice told her something was afoot.
          <i>"Major, the colonel wants to see you in his office."</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          "Of course." She knew better than to vocalize her true feelings when
          someone might overhear her. "I'm on my way."
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          "Wait outside, Doc Jobber." When Amesh's door slid open, Rosk paused a
          second to assess the interior before stepping inside, stalling for a
          number of reasons. For starters, the longer the door stayed open, the
          more hot, humid air escaped the Duros' office.
        </p>
        <p>
          Amesh waited expectantly behind his desk. He was standing, but not on
          her account.
        </p>
        <p>
          Evan stood also, next to the door. He looked nervous. In a good way?
          In a bad way?
        </p>
        <p>
          Looking beyond Evan, she saw the reason for it all, and adrenaline
          charged in her veins, vaporizing her exhaustion.
          <i>Well, frell. Here we go.</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          She stepped inside with deliberate calmness and saluted twice.
          "Colonel. Colonel."
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >Colonel Zenia Ceriseal Bellenacht. Human, female. Ex-Imperial
            Intelligence, defected to the Rebel Alliance Intelligence Service,
            now known as New Republic Intelligence. Serves with distinction as
            one of our most effective field agents.</i
          >
          Rosk could have recited the whole personnel file in her sleep, and it
          wasn't a short read.
        </p>
        <p>
          Never had she been more aware of a door closing behind her. She'd felt
          this itchy rush of anxiety before, always in combat. This might be a
          civilized meeting of fellow soldiers in an ordinary office, but she
          knew it was as dangerous as any other battlefield she'd entered.
        </p>
        <p>
          The woman standing before the desk returned the salute casually and
          took a seat. She gracefully pushed back her long, silver hair as she
          folded one leg over the other. "A pleasure to meet you, Major Vikeron
          . . . or do you prefer Silence?"
        </p>
        <p>Rosk shrugged with the vaguest lift of her shoulders.</p>
        <p>
          "Silence it is." The woman smiled warmly. "You may know me as Agent
          Zeno, although I don't believe we've met before."
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk waited. There was no benefit to offering any information until
          she knew the nature of the woman's visit.
        </p>
        <p>
          Evan edged closer to the wall. His hero stood before him, but he still
          seemed uneasy. If he paid attention, he knew the less comfortable Rosk
          felt, the more she lived up to her nickname.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yes, indeed." Colonel Amesh also sat back down, seemingly oblivious.
          Since she always felt uncomfortable in his office, perhaps he assumed
          her silence meant nothing out of the ordinary. "Major Vikeron is one
          of our more accomplished interrogators. She's currently on our highest
          priority case. Our forces encountered what we believe was a forward
          staging area on the outskirts of Malastare. We suspect Grand General
          Kenner Loring is planning an attack, and we captured an Imperial pilot
          who may have information about what the target is."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Excellent. You have my interest, Silence, as does this case." Zeno's
          blue gaze met Rosk's own ice-blue eyes. "How is the case progressing?"
        </p>
        <p>"It is progressing as expected, colonel."</p>
        <p>
          "She's being too modest. We already have a possible lead. I'm sure
          we'll have a solid confirmation by the end of the day, won't we,
          major?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Most likely, sir." Rosk wondered when the sweat running between her
          shoulder blades would start to soak through her uniform. She noticed
          how Zeno looked so effortlessly comfortable in the damp heat. The
          Duros may or may not be cold-blooded, but that woman was for sure.
        </p>
        <p>
          How many case files had Rosk scrolled through every night for months,
          reading about Zeno's exploits? And those were the ones that made it to
          official records. Zeno may have changed sides, but her tactics had not
          changed at all.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>"The military doesn't like rats, lieutenant."</i> Rosk remembered
          being summoned into the office of General Airen Cracken several years
          ago.
          <i
            >"You have made several reports about officers above you. You may
            think your . . .observations . . . have gone unnoticed, but they
            have not."
            <p>"Yes, sir. Permission to speak freely, sir?"</p>
            <p>
              "I've read your file. When have you ever not spoken freely? It is
              your number one character flaw by all accounts."
            </p></i
          >
          The general had waved a hand.
          <i
            >"By all means, say what you have to say."
            <p>
              "I come from a QA background, sir. I report problems so they can
              be solved, not to get people punished. There are certain rules you
              can't break without jeopardizing missions and lives. I found that
              out firsthand."
            </p>
            <p>"Ah, yes."</p></i
          >
          General Cracken had nodded.
          <i
            >"You were a commander once, before you filed a report on yourself
            that led to your own court martial and cost you several ranks."
            <p>
              "It was the right course of action to correct the problem, sir.
              I'm not going to protect myself at the expense of others."
            </p>
            <p>"Which makes you exactly who I need for this job."</p></i
          >He had smiled when she frowned.
          <i
            >"I'm giving you a promotion. You'll retain your current post in
            Intelligence, crunching data and interviewing people, but you're
            getting an upgrade to your clearance, and you're going to be working
            a lot of overtime."
            <p>"Doing what, sir?"</p>
            <p>"Following up on reports from people like yourself."</p>
            <p>"I just process data, sir. I'm not ready for the field - "</p>
            <p>
              "I already have field agents. I have people committed to the
              cause. I have people loyal to me. What I need is a person who
              cares more about the truth than about any person or cause."
            </p></i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          Zeno had covered her tracks well, appearing in only a few incident
          reports, but as they trickled in, Rosk had taken more notice,
          eventually prioritizing the case to the top of her stack. For over a
          year, she had been hunting for proof of misconduct, and slowly the
          pieces had come together.
        </p>
        <p>
          Unlike Colonel Amesh, Colonel Bellenacht had many years of experience
          for both sides, and she held her informants, subordinates, and other
          assets under the tightest of chokeholds. She trusted no one, so she
          gathered leverage over everyone she dealt with, putting them squarely
          under her thumb. She cared for no one, so she never hesitated to risk
          her assets lives for her goals. She stood for everything Rosk hated
          about field work, and everything she hated about the Empire.
        </p>
        <p>
          People like this silver-haired and silver-tongued woman were exactly
          why General Cracken had given Rosk such high clearance and such a low
          profile. People like Zeno had connections throughout NRI, and with
          enough favors and blackmail, one could cover up any abuse of power.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Well, it's been an honor meeting you, Agent Zeno." Colonel Amesh
          shook Zeno's hand, as enamored of her reputation as everyone else.
          "Unfortunately, I have some pressing matters to discuss with the
          major."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Of course. The honor is all mine. Major. Captain. Always a pleasure
          to meet promising agents." The woman shook their hands as well, and
          left with a nod to each of them. Her hand left a trace of warmth on
          Rosk's cold palm. How did such a sinister woman have such a
          charismatic smile and kind voice?
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk was glad she had never met Zeno before, because she knew she
          would have wanted to like the woman. She would have doubted all the
          evidence she'd seen. As it was, she knew this was just another façade
          in the repertoire of a very skilled agent.
        </p>
        <p>
          The colonel did not have such talents. The moment Zeno left, he
          scowled at Rosk. "Have a solid confirmation of the target before the
          end of the day or I'll let Zeno have the case. We may need someone
          with more experience for such a critical assignment."
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk thought about what she'd told Jock.
          <i>Don't worry, we aren't actually allowed to torture anyone.</i> She
          hadn't lied. Those were the rules. But someone like Zeno wouldn't
          follow those rules, and she had all the training in interrogation and
          torture that the Empire could provide.
        </p>
        <p>Her jaw tightened. "Understood, sir."</p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          A stack of flimsies in hand, Rosk stared at the door to the interview
          room. Evan had stopped at the refresher on the way back, and the
          observation room felt empty without his eager presence. All the lights
          glowed with life and all the instruments busily recorded and displayed
          readings, but there was no one around to react to any of it.
        </p>
        <p>It felt like she felt.</p>
        <p>
          She had too much information. She should be an emotional wreck, but
          each emotion struggled against another, leaving her unsure what to
          feel. What she did know was that she had a job to do, and that it was
          a job best done without emotional interference.
        </p>
        <p>
          Was she lying to herself? Was she truly acting without emotion? What
          she was about to do was hardly by the book.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>Well, whatever.</i> She'd made up her mind. "Wish me luck, guys."
        </p>
        <p>
          The droid receptor pivoted towards her reproachfully. "Luck is for the
          ill-prepared."
        </p>
        <p>"That's very helpful, Jobber." Rosk rolled her eyes.</p>
        <p>
          "You'll do fine." The R2 head bumped her gently. "You'll figure it
          out."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Thanks, Doc. Wait here." Her hand pressed against the door controls,
          and it slid briskly aside, allowing her to step through.
        </p>
        <p>Jock looked up hopefully.</p>
        <p>
          <i>Am I being compassionate? Or merciless?</i> Laying the flimsies
          face down before her, she took her seat one more time, but this time
          she faced him squarely. She rested her elbows on the table, and her
          chin on her interlaced knuckles. "Jock, there is one thing I care more
          about than any loyalty to a person or faction. It's a double-edged
          sword. It's a little, inescapable thing that is often maligned, run
          from, misconstrued, and twisted, but it is immutable no matter how
          many people try to hide it or how many people misunderstand it. I will
          live by this sword until my dying breath. Do you know what it is?"
        </p>
        <p>
          He shrugged, as if trying to lighten the mood. "After that lead-in, I
          wouldn't dare guess."
        </p>
        <p>
          "It's the truth, Jock. And the problem with the truth is that it is so
          expansive, we usually only see small pieces of it. And a partial truth
          can be as good as a lie."
        </p>
        <p>
          "You've grown very philosophical. I think I liked you better when you
          were being a goofball." His unease told her he knew something bad was
          coming.
        </p>
        <p>
          "I like me better as a goofball too." She flashed him a heartfelt
          smile. "You asked about your wingman. I'm going to tell you the truth.
          But I'm going to give you the whole truth, not just a fragment, and
          not just about your wingman.
        </p>
        <p>
          "I know more about you than you think. You're Dicer Leader. Commander
          of the forward scout squadron that led the way for the first Death
          Star as it went to Yavin. Your flight group chanced upon the only
          Rebel unit in the entire Torque system - the remains of White
          Squadron. Five little R-22s up against three TIE Defenders. They
          weren't expecting Imperial fighters to pop out of hyperspace. They
          didn't even know what a Defender was. Shields and hyperdrives on a
          TIE? Madness."
        </p>
        <p>His brown eyes studied her warily.</p>
        <p>
          She leaned forward. "White Squadron, as you said, suffered from poor
          leadership. Having suffered losses recently, it was led by someone too
          green to be a real leader, too green to maintain order during the heat
          of battle, too green to put up any sort of fight against an unfamiliar
          fighter model. Even with faster ships, without a proper leader to give
          them direction, White scattered and your ace team tore them apart with
          ease. And the only one who deserved to die that day . . . didn't."
        </p>
        <p>
          "You? You were there?" He blinked. "I thought we killed them all."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Rebels don't leave people behind. Someone came to sweep up the
          pieces, and the medical crew did their best to put those pieces back
          together." Her voice came out flat, as if reciting someone else's
          words in court.
        </p>
        <p>
          She didn't tell him how few Rebel outposts had bacta tanks, or that
          Yavin wasn't one of the lucky ones. It had taken her three months to
          recover physically, and that was only thanks to having a medical droid
          and a decent surgeon on hand.
        </p>
        <p>
          He stared at her quietly for a long time. Finally, his gaze dropped.
          "I see."
        </p>
        <p>
          She understood his situation. He felt her pain and knew he'd caused
          it, but how could he feel bad about winning a victory against the
          enemy? She knew she wouldn't.
        </p>
        <p>
          "I'm not seeking your remorse. I'm only telling you because I was
          there too, and I thought you should know." She cleared her throat and
          pressed on. "About <i>Ferro City</i>. It was a target of opportunity,
          discovered by a New Republic fleet returning to Sullust. Crippled by
          prior battles, our fleet was not prepared for a conflict. Surprise
          gave them the advantage, however, allowing them to shoot down the
          fighter patrol. They knew more fighters than they could handle would
          launch from the station in mere minutes, so in desperation, they
          played the only trick they had up their sleeve, a <i>Sphyrna</i>-class
          corvette. A hammerhead.
        </p>
        <p>
          "The Imperials scrambled their fighters but couldn't get all of them
          off deck before the corvette charged the station, knocking
          <i>Ferro City</i> into a sizable asteroid. The collision resulted in a
          detonation of the station's ordnance depot. Turns out you guys were
          storing a heck of a lot of firepower, which is why we found you
          drifting in a smashed-up TIE Defender, knocked unconscious. The few
          Imperial ships capable of hyperspace retreated."
        </p>
        <p>He remained silent.</p>
        <p>
          "Being the first out, you got farthest from the blast. We found two
          other TIE Defenders in worse shape." She took a breath, not sure how
          to mention the man in the coma.
        </p>
        <p>
          His fingers clenched into fists, and he stared at them wordlessly for
          a long time before speaking. "I guess you must find that pretty
          poetic."
        </p>
        <p>"I'm not a fan of poetry."</p>
        <p>
          He finally looked up, meeting her eyes. "By some absurd chance, you
          finally have the man responsible for the death of your unit. And
          you're telling me - "
        </p>
        <p>
          "There's only one person responsible for the deaths of my pilots. It
          was my job to keep them alive." She drew another measured breath.
          "Your job was to take us out. You did your job. It was I who failed,
          and I won't give you credit for my failure."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Maybe you should." Clearing his throat, he glanced away. "Blaming me
          might hurt less than blaming yourself."
        </p>
        <p>
          She snorted. "You think it would help to say, 'There's nothing I could
          have done about it.' Render myself impotent in an effort to absolve
          myself? No. Blaming my opponent for my failures won't make me
          stronger."
        </p>
        <p>"I just meant - "</p>
        <p>
          "No. My loss was my fault, just as the loss of - " She almost
          mentioned Armath, but then thought better of it. "We're at war, and
          this is how it works. It's nothing personal. We fight the battles our
          command tells us to fight, and if we aren't good enough, we lose."
        </p>
        <p>"You don't hate me?"</p>
        <p>
          "If I hated you for doing your duty as a pilot, I'd have to hate
          myself for the same crimes. I don't. The only thing I hate is the
          ideals of your faction."
        </p>
        <p>"But we're enemies."</p>
        <p>
          "I disagree. We've gotten along fine." She hadn't faked her cheerful
          playfulness. She had genuinely enjoyed talking to him. Would her dead
          squad mates think she had betrayed them in some way? Maybe Doc was
          right, and it didn't matter.
        </p>
        <p>
          She lifted her gaze as she corrected him. "Our leaders are enemies. My
          father's side of the family is from Coruscant. My mother's, from
          Alderaan. I've spent time on both planets, and they both had problems.
          The Empire and the New Republic both have problems. Both want control.
          Both claim they are in the right. But only one of them is terrified of
          dissent. Only one of them is willing to deliberately massacre entire
          planets of non-combatants to get their way."
        </p>
        <p>"How many people do you think died on the Death Stars?"</p>
        <p>
          "I said <i>deliberately</i>. Any civilians on the Death Stars were
          collateral damage that we would have avoided if we could. The
          civilians on Alderaan were the target." She stood up slowly, pushing
          her chair back. "You and I signed up to kill and to die. What did the
          people of Alderaan sign up for?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "It was a show of force designed to save lives by preventing more
          worlds from engaging in civil war. Alderaan started the Rebellion - "
        </p>
        <p>
          "No. One of their senators started the Rebellion. Understand the
          distinction between a government and the people below them. I
          guarantee you they didn't all vote for Bail Organa. They weren't all
          Rebel sympathizers. Twenty-six percent of the population were
          children. Why not just capture the Organas and string them up as the
          example?"
        </p>
        <p>He had no response for that.</p>
        <p>
          "I don't require my friends or my government to agree with me. I do,
          however, require they let me disagree with them." Perhaps she was
          wrong about him. She scraped the flimsies off the table. Perhaps it
          was too soon. If only she had more time!
        </p>
        <p>
          Numbly, she reached for the door. "I believe my time here is up.
          Goodbye, Jock."
        </p>
        <p>
          His voice stayed her hand. "Had we been on the same side, I think we
          would have gotten along."
        </p>
        <p>She swallowed. "We have gotten along."</p>
        <p>
          She hadn't faked her cheerful playfulness. She had enjoyed talking to
          him. Would her dead squad mates think she had betrayed them in some
          way? Maybe Doc was right, and it didn't matter.
        </p>
        <p>"My name's Zander Pokri."</p>
        <p>Rosk half turned, looking back at him.</p>
        <p>
          His eyes met hers briefly before glancing away. "My friends call me
          Poker."
        </p>
        <p>
          For a moment, she said nothing. She understood the comment for what it
          was - a gesture, an offer, and a question. She drew a breath,
          remembering each of the faces of White Squadron.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >Sorry. If you want to hate me, it's well-deserved, but it's time I
            move on. Rest in peace, my friends.</i
          >
          She let out the breath and nodded. "My friends call me Silence."
        </p>
        <p>
          Her heart lurched with a jolt of adrenaline. Maybe it wasn't too soon,
          or too late.
        </p>
        <p>
          The stack of flimsies waited in her damp fingers, clutched to her
          chest. Time to test her instincts. Time to ignore everything she
          thought White Squadron might think. Returning to her seat briskly, she
          slid them in front of him, face up.
        </p>
        <p>He squinted at the documents. "What is this?"</p>
        <p>"A petition to defect to the New Republic."</p>
        <p>
          He frowned faintly at it, more in confusion than rejection. "Why?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "You initially refused to give us name, rank, and serial number, which
          tells me you aren't keen on being sent back to the Empire. You only
          showed concern for one of your pilots, which implies you never meshed
          well with the rest of your squadron."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Just because the Empire has problems doesn't mean you people are any
          better."
        </p>
        <p>
          "You're right. It doesn't." She leaned back in her chair. "But you
          have three options. Stay a prisoner of war. Get shipped back to the
          Empire if they are willing to trade someone for you. Or, realize that
          everything you've heard about us - good and bad - is propaganda, and
          that the only way you'll know for sure is to look with your own eyes."
        </p>
        <p>
          Jock stared at the documents for several minutes. His eyes didn't
          track back and forth, reading the words. Instead, his gaze stabbed
          right through the table and into the unknowable. Eventually, he spoke,
          his voice low and resigned. "I'm not going back."
        </p>
        <p>
          Her first hunch had been right. "Then you have two choices left. You
          can either stay locked up, or you can take a chance on us."
        </p>
        <p>
          "You want me to turn against everything I've ever sworn to uphold."
        </p>
        <p>
          "No. I want you to make your own decision, based on your own personal
          observations, instead of what you've been told about the Empire and
          the New Republic." Rosk knitted her fingers together. She wished she
          could tell him what Zeno would do to him if he didn't follow along,
          but telling him would come off as a threat, and uttering such an
          accusation on an official recording would be suicide. "It's not my
          decision to make."
        </p>
        <p>"I see." He continued to stare at the flimsies.</p>
        <p>
          "There's one caveat. If you choose to defect, it comes with a price:
          honesty. I have one question for you, and you have to answer it
          truthfully."
        </p>
        <p>He looked up suspiciously. "What question?"</p>
        <p>"Where were your forces preparing to attack next?"</p>
        <p>"Did you collect his body?"</p>
        <p>
          The question caught her off guard, but she knew it shouldn't have.
          "Yes."
        </p>
        <p>"Can I see him?"</p>
        <p>
          She had intentionally let him think his friend had died, to help him
          take the dire news of the coma as a positive, but with everything else
          on her mind, she'd forgotten to give him the news. "Yes."
        </p>
        <p>
          Gathering up the flimsies in his shackled hands, he tapped them on the
          table to line them up neatly. He took a breath. He let it out. And
          then he met her gaze. "I already told you. It's Armath."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Armath. You swear that's accurate?" She nodded to the documents. "If
          you lie, that form is null and void. You know that, right?"
        </p>
        <p>
          He nodded, and his grip on the flimsies tightened. "<i>Ferro City</i>
          was a staging area. We were early in the process of amassing an
          assault force with the specific mandate from Grand General Kenner
          Loring to locate and attack New Republic fleets weakened by the Battle
          of Endor and other recent conflicts. We were supposed to hit Armath
          next week, but the loss of Ferro City may set back the timetable a few
          months."
        </p>
        <p>
          Next week wouldn't leave much time to muster reinforcements.
          <i>I hope he's correct about that delay.</i> She got up. "Thank you.
          I'll have a legal counsel help you fill out the form. Goodbye and good
          luck."
        </p>
        <p>"See you around." He lifted a hand from the table.</p>
        <p>
          "Unlikely." Her future in Intelligence was over. His case was closed,
          and she wouldn't be getting another.
        </p>
        <p>
          "We've met twice already under more unlikely circumstances." He smiled
          faintly. "Silence."
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>My friends call me Silence.</i> She remembered her words and for a
          moment, she couldn't speak.
        </p>
        <p>
          "I'm not sure that name suits you, Rosk. You get pretty mouthy." He
          grinned in jest. "I'm sure we will meet again."
        </p>
        <p>
          A pain cut through her heart. The last time she'd seen that expression
          had been four years ago. She quickly shook her head to clear it.
          "There's someone else you should be meeting again."
        </p>
        <p>
          Opening the door, Rosk nodded to Evan, who had returned to the station
          outside. "Have him escorted to the medical ward."
        </p>
        <p>"Yes, ma'am." Evan reached for his comlink to call for guards.</p>
        <p>
          "I don't understand." Was that sudden concern on Jock's - Zander's -
          face? She couldn't blame him. Had she been sent to the medical ward by
          Imperial captors, her mind would be jumping to unpleasant conclusions
          that involved a lot of needles.
        </p>
        <p>
          "One of your wingmen survived, but he's in a coma. You only asked
          about one of them, so I hope he's the one you liked best." She glanced
          back at him just long enough to catch the spark of hope lighting in
          his eyes. "Take care . . . Poker. Maybe you're right. Maybe we will
          meet again."
        </p>
        <p>
          On her way out, Doc Jobber popped up from its resting place on Evan's
          desk. "See? I told you that you'd do fine. Well done, Rosk."
        </p>
        <p>
          Jobber made a derogatory noise. "If you'd have let me take him out
          earlier, I could have saved you all this trouble."
        </p>
        <p>"You're heartless! Don't listen to him, Rosk."</p>
        <p>
          "Don't hold me to meatbag standards!" The droid's lights blinked in
          agitation. "By that comparison, you're brainless and gutless, medical
          droid!"
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          She'd done it. Heart hammering, Rosk took a moment to calm her nerves
          outside Colonel Amesh's door. She'd saved a New Republic fleet from a
          surprise attack. She'd saved a decent man from Zeno. Time to wrap
          things up.
        </p>
        <p>
          Drawing a deep breath, she sighed, squared her shoulders, and once
          again entered her least favorite room on the <i>Veracity</i>.
        </p>
        <p>
          Colonel Amesh waved her inside from his desk, but her opinion of the
          room immediately went from bad to worse as she saw he already had a
          visitor. Gritting her teeth, she saluted to both of them.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Come in, have a seat." Agent Zeno patted the chair next to her
          invitingly. She pointed to the holoprojector on Amesh's desk. The
          image had been paused, a frozen version of Rosk leaning over a table,
          documents in hand. "It's always fascinating to watch other agents
          work, don't you think? Congratulations, by the way."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Thank you, ma'am." Why couldn't anyone just let her work in peace? "I
          came to report that I got confirmation of the target, but I see you
          both already know."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yes. And through such . . . intriguing methods." Zeno's fingers swept
          through her silver hair, tucking it behind her right ear. "Such deft
          manipulation of the subject. Optimal outcome with minimal effort. I
          could learn a thing or two from you."
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >No, you couldn't, because you have no idea what happened in
            there.</i
          >
          Rosk shrugged lightly, folding her hands behind her back to keep them
          from trembling with adrenaline. "Thank you, ma'am."
        </p>
        <p>
          "No, thank you. You got him to request to defect. And we're going to
          grant his request, but first he has to earn it."
        </p>
        <p><i>He did earn it!</i> Rosk bit her tongue.</p>
        <p>
          "You see, this man is a unique asset. The Empire is unaware we
          captured him. Which means we can send him back to them without them
          being the wiser. In his position, he'll make an excellent informant."
        </p>
        <p>
          Her teeth could no longer stop her tongue. She fought to keep her tone
          civil. "You mean if they don't kill him on sight for going AWOL and
          not reporting in."
        </p>
        <p>
          "A risk I'm willing to take. Nothing ventured, nothing gained, right?"
          Zeno's casual tone contrasted harshly with the gravity of the
          situation. "If he's willing to work for us, we'll approve his
          request."
        </p>
        <p>
          What good was defecting if you just got sent back to where you were
          fleeing from? Would Zander accept the deal? Not willingly. But of
          course, Zeno had all the leverage. Rosk knew, as Zeno must also, that
          Zander's wingman was the ultimate bargain chip.
        </p>
        <p>
          As expected, Amesh nodded along to the plan. "Tomorrow, you will
          explain to him the conditions of defecting."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Of course, sir." The acknowledgement came out because there was
          nothing else to say. Her mouth covered for her brain, which scrambled
          to figure out what to do.
        </p>
        <p>
          "No," Zeno countered. "Make it tonight. Tomorrow, have him brought to
          Room 3F. I will help him finalize the paperwork and the details of our
          arrangement."
        </p>
        <p>
          3F. The interview room no one used because the recording equipment was
          broken. For some reason no one had bothered to fix it, despite Rosk's
          regular reports about it.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yes, ma'am." Again, her mouth offered up the correct response. "If
          that's all, I should get to it."
        </p>
        <p>Amesh nodded again. "Dismissed, major."</p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>Rosk took the lift.</p>
        <p>
          She didn't know what to do, but she knew Evan and Zander would be at
          the medical ward.
        </p>
        <p>
          When the lift door opened, she jogged the rest of the way, halting
          before the door to hastily catch her breath before anyone saw her.
          <i>What to do, what to do, what to do. . . .</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          The 2-1B droid turned upon her the instant she entered the ward. It
          pointed a skeletal finger at her. "Major Vikeron. If you're here to
          disturb my patients - "
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk's eyes landed on the empty bacta tank and the two New Republic
          guards standing nearby, and her heart jumped. "Where's the guy who was
          in this tank?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "His body has been repaired. I moved him to a bed to recover." A wave
          of his metal hands directed her towards the beds partitioned off by
          curtains. He pointed at the one on the end, and she saw two pairs of
          feet standing by the bed.
        </p>
        <p>
          Jogging over, she yanked the curtain open. Seeing Evan, Zander, and
          Zander's wingman safe inside offered her a few seconds of relief, but
          she didn't have time for relief, or for their questioning looks.
        </p>
        <p>
          She beckoned to the 2-1B droid. "Have this patient prepared for
          transfer immediately."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Under whose authority, ma'am? I've received no transfer documents.
          He's in no condition to be moved without medical supervision. Not to
          mention he's a potentially dangerous prison who requires armed guards
          at all times."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Under my authority. Under - Frak!" She took a breath, aware that now
          everyone was staring at her. She had no idea what she was doing. She
          only knew what would happen if she failed.
        </p>
        <p>"Ma'am, are you okay?" Evan caught her elbow, looking concerned.</p>
        <p>"Where's your report on Gemilan? Did you find anything?"</p>
        <p>
          "I sent it to you last night. I noted everything that seemed
          significant, but you didn't tell me to look for anything in
          particular." His face told her enough. If he'd found any connection to
          Zeno, it would be the first thing he'd mention.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >I have so little evidence. I can't go to Cracken with nothing but
            rumors and conjecture and expect anything to be done. Curse her for
            covering her tracks so well!</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          "I think you owe me an explanation." Zander's cuffed hands tightened
          around the bedrail of his unconscious comrade. "Why would you move
          him?"
        </p>
        <p>
          Her brain kept skipping from one thing to another. "The approval of
          your defection is contingent on you working for us."
        </p>
        <p>
          He frowned at her, probably struggling to connect the two unrelated
          topics. "I can offer my services as a pilot. That's not a problem."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yes, but that's not what they - She wants - " Rosk forced herself to
          stop and take a breath. She had to focus. Maybe she couldn't figure
          everything out, but panicking would be the fastest way to land the
          worst possible outcome. Evan was looking at her funny. He had probably
          never seen her lose her cool.
          <i>Well, today you find out I'm only human, captain.</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          She pulled herself up straight and tried again. "They want to send you
          back to the Empire. You go back, pretend you survived somehow, and
          return to your normal duties. But as an informant to us."
        </p>
        <p>
          Zander's brown eyes bored into her. "You think the Empire is that
          stupid? Do you know what they would do to me?"
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >Probably the same thing Zeno's going to do to you if you don't,
            locked in that unmonitored room with you. Interrogation rooms are
            soundproof, and I bet she has access to a dozen ways to make you
            scream without leaving any physical evidence.</i
          >
          Rosk couldn't meet his gaze. No, torture wasn't Zeno's primary tactic
          - at least not from what she gleaned from hearsay and whispers. Zeno
          would go straight for Zander's wingman. But what if she couldn't?
        </p>
        <p>She swallowed. "What are you willing to do for your wingman?"</p>
        <p>
          He stiffened. "Major Vikeron. Rosk. Silence - what are you saying?"
        </p>
        <p>
          Just then, a familiar shape barged into the ward. "Do you have any
          idea how slow these repulsorlifts are? I demand upgrades!"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Jobber, not now." Rosk rubbed her face. "I'm sorry I left you behind.
          You could have just taken the lift."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Have you ever tried to operate lift controls with no frakking
          appendages, human?" The receptor glowed, clearly incensed.
        </p>
        <p>"Shush! Are you capable of guarding a prisoner?"</p>
        <p>"Of course! I am fully qualified to - "</p>
        <p>Rosk cut him off. "Doc, can you care for a patient in a coma?"</p>
        <p>
          "I can provide direction, but as Jobber crudely pointed out, I have no
          physical limbs with which to provide care."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Silence." Zander interrupted her. "You owe me an explanation. What is
          happening?"
        </p>
        <p>
          She saw the concern and the brewing anger beneath it. So of the two
          pilots who had launched from <i>Ferro City</i>, this was the one was
          his friend. This was the one Zeno could use to corner Zander, despite
          all his stoicism and counter-interrogation training.
        </p>
        <p>
          All the investigation she'd done, and she hadn't found anything
          concrete enough to stop Zeno. She couldn't go to her commanding
          officer because he wouldn't help her, and she couldn't go to General
          Cracken because she had a flimsy case at best, and nothing flimsy
          would stand up against Zeno's connections and cunning.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Silence! Look at me." Zander's voice took a commanding tone, one that
          demanded her attention effortlessly. He'd been a good commander,
          hadn't he? One who knew how to calmly take control of his men in an
          emergency. Here he was, powerless, a shackled prisoner, knowing
          something threatening loomed over him and his surviving wingman, and
          yet he still had more composure than she did. "Take a breath. Let it
          out. Now, tell me what's wrong."
        </p>
        <p>
          She swallowed. All she could do was turn him over to Zeno, but . . .
          maybe she had one last card to play. "I need your help."
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          Battle of Endor +20 days<br />
          Sullust system<br />
          CRC <i>Veracity</i>
        </p>
        <p>"Colonel."</p>
        <p>
          "Good morning, Silence." Agent Zeno swept briskly into Room 3F. Her
          gaze flicked over Rosk's crisp attention-posture and the two cups of
          caf she held awkwardly in one hand and tucked under one arm while
          saluting with the other. "At ease, major."
        </p>
        <p>
          "I took the liberty of getting you and the prisoner some caf, colonel.
          Hot drinks always make business deals go smoother." Rosk handed both
          cups to Zeno, glancing through the observation window and into
          interview room, where Zander waited, his restraints locked to the
          table.
        </p>
        <p>"Thank you, Silence. That's very thoughtful."</p>
        <p>
          "Oh, colonel. I must apologize." Rosk waved at the dark screens of the
          observation console. "The recording systems in the room have been dead
          for a while. I keep putting in requests to get it fixed, but . . ."
        </p>
        <p>
          "That's fine. It's not like I'm questioning the prisoner. We're just
          going over his documents. No need to have a recording when
          everything's already in writing." Zeno smiled. "Let's save the working
          rooms for the people who need to conduct interrogations, yes?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Of course, ma'am." Rosk nodded and tucked her hands behind her back.
          "Should I accompany you?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "For a routine signing of documents?" The woman arched a chiseled
          eyebrow. "I'm sure you have more pressing matters to attend to."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yes, ma'am." Lifting her comlink, Rosk backed toward the door leading
          to the hallway. "Just call me if you need anything."
        </p>
        <p>
          "There is one thing. This man's file mentions a second prisoner picked
          up at the same time."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yes, ma'am. He's in the medical ward, but he's in a coma, so we
          haven't been able to question him. I think he needs to be transferred
          to a specialist."
        </p>
        <p>
          "No." Zeno eyes caught Rosk's sternly. "I want you to keep him where
          he is for now."
        </p>
        <p>"Understood, ma'am."</p>
        <p>
          Rosk shot a final glance through the window before leaving.
          <i>Good luck, Poker.</i>
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          Interview Room 3F had a long history of maintenance problems. However,
          Rosk had a history of repairing droids, and that meant easy work
          replacing the broken camera with the working one from 3E.
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk tapped into feeds using her desk computer, with her boots propped
          up in the comfort of her office. The interview started off as one
          would expect. Zeno and Zander both introduced themselves pleasantly,
          chit-chatted for a few minutes, and then got to the point.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"I hear you wish to defect."
            <p>"I do."</p>
            <p>"Why?"</p>
            <p>
              "I've dealt with too many corrupt leaders. No matter what you
              hear, it's difficult to feel you're on the right side when the
              shadiest sort of people rise to power and everything's a political
              game. I've seen good pilots torn apart for the smallest
              infractions while the best liars and brownnosers get promoted up
              the ranks like a rodent with its tail on fire."
            </p></i
          >
          Zander poked at the table.
          <i
            >"I thought the reb - the New Republic - would be even worse.
            Fanatic extremists touting anarchy under the guise of freedom while
            the Empire tries to keep the universe orderly and safe. I thought
            you were all lawless terrorists, to be honest."
            <p>
              "And now you want to join us? From the inside of a cell, you've
              somehow seen enough to decide we're not what you thought?"
            </p>
            <p>
              "Maybe my interactions have been limited, but already I've seen
              sincerity and I've seen happiness and I've seen kindness."
            </p></i
          >
          Zander's dark eyes flicked upwards.
          <i
            >"Do you have any idea how grim and serious it is in the Imperial
            Navy? I thought it was called professionalism. It's not. It's mental
            suffocation. Always having to watch your back among friends? You
            don't have to do that with real friends."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          A silver eyebrow arched.
          <i
            >"You think one person represents the whole of the New Republic?"
            <p>
              "No. But I know she couldn't survive in the Imperial Navy, but she
              can here. That tells me enough."
            </p>
            <p>"Very well. I believe you. I will approve your request."</p></i
          >
          Zeno tapped the forms on the table between them.
          <i
            >"However, you have to earn it."
            <p>"I suppose that's fair."</p>
            <p>
              "We need an informant. We're going to let you go. You're going to
              return to the Imperial Navy, or whatever remnant of it you came
              from, pretend you eluded capture, and you're going to feed us
              intel."
            </p></i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          A furrow formed between Zander's thick eyebrows.
          <i
            >"No."
            <p>"No?"</p></i
          >
          Zeno leaned back in her chair, a cold smile breaking through her
          normally warm façade.
          <i
            >"I'm sorry. Did I give you the impression you have a choice?"
            <p>"I'm not returning to the Empire."</p></i
          >
          Zander's posture stiffened.
          <i
            >"I do have a choice, because if defecting means I have to go back,
            then I retract my request."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          Zeno's smile turned to one of amusement.
          <i>"And what would Breg say?"</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          Breg? Rosk's boots dropped from her desk, and she tapped the name into
          the Intelligence database. A few results returned, but nothing that
          seemed relevant.
        </p>
        <p>
          The way Zander shifted in his chair told Rosk that he hadn't expected
          the name either. He didn't respond.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"You know, your wingman. The one who is still clinging to life
            under our care. I understand you are close friends."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          Zander refused to fall for the bait.
          <i
            >"As my friend, he would tell me to save myself."
            <p>"Would he now?"</p></i
          >
          Zeno leaned over the table like a carrion bird, but the microphones in
          the room still picked up her whisper.
          <i
            >"Thing is, Zander, your dear friend is in a coma. He could die at
            any time and no one would even bother with an autopsy."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          Seeing the Zander's face harden, Rosk bit her lip.
          <i
            >Please trust me, Zander. I told you I would protect him. Please
            believe me.
            <p>
              "I don't believe you are in any position to threaten me with my
              friend's life."
            </p></i
          >
          His fingers curled around the chain between his stun cuffs, as if he
          wanted to wrap it around the agent's neck, but it was bolted to the
          table.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>"Really?"</i> Chuckling, Zeno sat back, pushing her hair over her
          shoulder. She pulled out a comlink.
          <i>"Silence. Have Zander's friend brought to 3F."</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk snatched up her own comlink. She took a breath and closed her
          eyes. "I can't do that, ma'am."
        </p>
        <p>
          Zeno's voice instantly turned sharp.
          <i>"Are you refusing a direct order, major?"</i>
        </p>
        <p>"I had him transferred off-ship this morning."</p>
        <p>
          <i>"I told you to leave him in the medical ward."</i> The icy razors
          of Zeno's voice cut through the comlink. <i>"Where is he?"</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          "No one on <i>Veracity</i>, myself included, has that answer." Rosk
          had given Evan and Doc Jobber specific instructions to leave, but not
          where to go. "Sorry, Colonel Zenia Bellenacht. Conspiracy to commit
          murder, just to gain leverage over a defector? Your career is over."
        </p>
        <p>
          "My career?" The woman in the holographic projection stood up slowly,
          and every ounce of her anger finally surfaced. She stepped away from
          the table, eyes flying to the camera that should have been broken.
          "You forget your place, major."
        </p>
        <p>
          "You're not wrong. I've been promoted and demoted so many times,
          sometimes I salute my own subordinates." Rosk tossed off the joke
          casually, but her fingers grew clammy around the comlink, because she
          knew who she was dealing with. Her mind traced every known and
          suspected connection Zeno had within the agency.
        </p>
        <p>
          Zeno disappeared from the holoprojection as she left the interview
          room, and a second later the projection died. "Thought you'd get
          clever? Against me? Nice try."
        </p>
        <p>
          Without the projection, all Rosk had left was what she could hear over
          the comlink.
        </p>
        <p>The whoosh of the interview door.</p>
        <p>The clink of the comlink being placed upon the table.</p>
        <p>
          Zeno's voice in the background. Did she have a second comlink?
          <i
            >"Send a security team to Major Vikeron's office. She's suspected of
            treason and is in possession of sensitive confidential information.
            Use any force necessary to apprehend her."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>Frak!</i> Rosk snatched the datacard out of her desk computer,
          where she had made a copy of the holo recording. Why hadn't she seen
          this coming?
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>"Now we get to the real arrangement, lieutenant commander."</i>
          Zeno's voice grew closer again, and a chair creaked. Was that genuine
          enjoyment in the woman's tone?
          <i
            >"You see, your precious major may have hidden your friend
            temporarily, but he will surface eventually. And in the meantime?
            She's about to be arrested for treason and insubordination . . .
            which puts her squarely under my power. So, let's review that
            agreement again, shall we?"
            <p>Double frak!</p></i
          >
          How had Zeno turned <i>her</i> into the leverage against Zander?
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk yanked open the fingerprint-locked drawer of her desk and pulled
          out an MSE droid. She stuck the datachip inside it and nearly punted
          it out the door as she headed the opposite direction down the hall.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"You think I'd believe that? Snuffing a man in a coma, maybe you'd
            get away with that. But an active intelligence agent on your own
            ship? Don't make me laugh."</i
          >
          Thank goodness Zander was still calling Zeno's bluff.
        </p>
        <p>
          She ran, not knowing where to go. Even on a cruiser-carrier the size
          of <i>Veracity</i>, she couldn't hide for long. The long corridors
          didn't help, because as she approached the closest intersection, she
          heard boots running from the left.
        </p>
        <p>
          Doing an about-face, she bolted back to the nearest vending machine
          and ducked behind it. On her datapad, she opened the app controlling
          her chromomite dye and set all of her hair to blond.
        </p>
        <p>
          As the security team approached, they saw a blond officer spilling a
          drink on herself and cussing a blue streak as she pulled off her
          stained jacket. They kept on jogging.
        </p>
        <p>
          Breathing easier, Rosk tucked the jacket under her arm to hide her
          rank, looked back to make sure they kept heading for her office, and
          then darted for the intersection. Maybe someone would think she was
          late for a meeting, or running PT, or just needed to use the refresher
          really badly. Maybe she -
        </p>
        <p>
          "Major!" Just as she skidded into the intersection to hang a hard
          right, she found a certain unpleasant Duros blocking her path. The
          blond hair didn't throw him. He knew about her special dye.
        </p>
        <p>"Yes, sir!" She halted hastily and tossed up a salute.</p>
        <p>"Report to my office immediately."</p>
        <p>
          Did he know? Had Zeno told him she was under suspicion of treason?
        </p>
        <p>
          "I just found the request you sent to me last night. I want to discuss
          it with you."
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>Oh, right. My transfer request.</i> It sounded like he had no clue,
          but the last place she wanted to be was trapped in his office, waiting
          to be found.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Sorry, sir. I'm in a bit of a hurry." The security team would be in
          her office by now. She lifted her comlink instinctively. "I'm actually
          on a - "
        </p>
        <p>
          She stared in sudden horror at the comlink. It wasn't a bluff. She was
          on a call. With Zeno. Wanting to listen in on Zeno and Zander, she'd
          forgotten Zeno could hear her too. That meant - "Sorry, colonel. I'll
          be right there in five minutes. I just need to hit the refresher."
        </p>
        <p>
          Disconnecting the call, she turned to head for the refresher, but it
          seemed Amesh had finally gotten tired of her borderline
          insubordination. He blocked her path. "I said, report to my office
          <i>immediately</i>, major. I'm sure you can hold it better than you
          can hold your tongue."
        </p>
        <p>
          Over her shoulder, she heard boots running toward them. "I'm sure I
          can, colonel."
        </p>
        <p>
          With that, she clocked him across his flat face with her right elbow
          hard enough to send him stumbling into the wall. Let security deal
          with that first.
        </p>
        <p>
          Taking off at a dead run, Rosk appreciated every time she had refused
          to take the lift. She knew the layout of the ship well, and her
          endurance served her well to buy her time. She went up and down
          levels, doubled back, and hid in hard-to-spot corners.
        </p>
        <p>
          Zeno had chosen a more subtle approach than to put the ship on high
          alert, which Rosk both appreciated and distrusted. The quieter the
          incident, the easier it would be to sweep her under the rug.
        </p>
        <p>
          She couldn't run forever, nor hide on a ship filled with security
          cameras. When she couldn't go any farther, she staggered into the
          officers' mess hall and collapsed on her hands and knees before the
          table of the highest ranking officer present. "I'm under arrest. I
          surrender."
        </p>
        <p>
          The officer, a general, scowled at her. "What the frell is the meaning
          of this?"
        </p>
        <p>
          He didn't have to wonder long, because two security teams charged
          through opposing doors and converged upon her, weapons drawn. Rosk
          waited with her hands behind her head, and her cheek pressed against
          the floor, breathing heavily.
        </p>
        <p>
          Had she bought enough time for her little MSE droid to deliver her
          files? At least throwing herself in front of a general had prevented
          them from shooting her on sight for "pulling a weapon" or some other
          fictitious excuse.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Who is this?" The general's dark eyes located the chief security
          officer. "What is the meaning of this?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "We have orders to apprehend Major Rosk Vikeron on suspicion of
          treason and aiding and abetting the enemy." The security officer waved
          at another man. "Cuff her."
        </p>
        <p>
          Treason. Perhaps throwing herself in front of a roomful of officers
          where they could see her being cuffed and accused of treason hadn't
          been her smartest move. Maybe Cracken could protect her from being
          snuffed before her trial or imprisoned for life, but he couldn't
          remove this scene from the memories of those watching, nor stop them
          from whispering.
        </p>
        <p>
          Treason. The cold metal tightened around her wrists roughly. She knew
          it wasn't true, but some aspect of the accusation still hurt. Getting
          pulled to her feet by security as people she knew stared at her wasn't
          a good feeling at all.
        </p>
        <p>
          Treason. What if the MSE droid never made it? What if Zeno caught it,
          too? What if no one came to clear her name? The guards patted her
          down, taking her boot knife and datapad.
          <i>There goes my only other copy of the evidence.</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          It slowly dawned on her that she might have lost. Her reckless effort
          to save Zander and Breg might have cost her everything. Her career.
          Her reputation. Her freedom.
        </p>
        <p>
          But <i>not</i> her integrity! Clenching her jaw, she could only hope
          Zander hadn't caved to Zeno's manipulation.
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>Battle of Endor +22 days
          <br /> Sullust system
          <br /> CRC <i>Veracity</i></p>
        <p>
          Colonel Amesh glared at Rosk from across his desk. A dark green bruise
          took the place of a nose on his flat face. "I understand Agent Zeno
          was taken in for questioning and that you have been cleared of the
          charges of treason as well of aiding and abetting."
        </p>
        <p>
          She nodded, carefully keeping a blank expression. She'd already had
          this conversation with General Cracken this morning, through an
          encrypted call to the prison block.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"I cannot overstate how much I appreciate your efforts to surface
            the crimes of Agent Zeno, major. Discretion isn't your strongest
            suit, is it? Rather a mess you left for me to clean up. I might also
            point out that your droid is extremely rude."
            <p>
              "Sorry, sir. I didn't know where else to send Breg and Evan except
              to you. I apologize for Jobber's behavior."
            </p></i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          "I have been . . . 'strongly encouraged' to drop the charges of
          assaulting an officer." Amesh's face left no doubt how he felt about
          this. "However, it was agreed your efforts to resist arrest were
          inexcusable, so I am hereby stripping you of two full ranks. Your pay
          will - "
        </p>
        <p>"You know what? It was worth it."</p>
        <p>
          "THREE full ranks!" He was nearly screaming now, his entire face
          flushing dark to match the ugly bruise. "Your pay will be
          appropriately reduced, <i>second lieutenant</i>."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Understood, sir." <i>Three? That’s a new personal record.</i> Rosk
          suspected the Duros would sound less smug if he realized the demotion
          brought her relief more than anything. She had known it was coming,
          anyway.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"With the evidence you sent me, it will be easy to remove all
            charges leveled by Agent Zeno against you."</i
          >
          General Cracken had frowned at her.
          <i
            >"But I'm afraid I cannot clear all charges against you without
            blowing your cover. Resisting arrest? Disobeying orders? Assaulting
            an officer?"
            <p>
              "I was afraid for my life, sir. Zeno has connections. I was buying
              time. As for assaulting an officer, if you knew Amesh, you'd
              understand, I promise."
            </p></i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          "About this transfer request." Amesh squinted at his datapad. "What is
          the meaning of this?"
        </p>
        <p>
          She didn't care to explain it. He wouldn't understand. "Consider it an
          early birthday present?"
        </p>
        <p>"Why should I approve this?"</p>
        <p>
          "I know you're eager to get rid of me. Show the other agents you mean
          business and won't tolerate unprofessionalism. That's what you want,
          right?" Rosk knitted her slender fingers together casually on the desk
          as she waited for him to read the document. "Make an example of me?
          Assert your authority?"
        </p>
        <p>
          He only glanced at it. His next words grated out as if he had a
          blaster to his head. "I was told to congratulate you on getting intel
          from that prisoner."
        </p>
        <p>
          "But in reality, you want to scoff at how unorthodox my methods were.
          Intel built from a set of silly puns? 'Preposterous,' you would say."
          She never thought she'd welcome it, but the oppressive heat of the
          office felt better than the cold cell she'd spent two nights in.
        </p>
        <p>
          "It is preposterous, and your methods are unorthodox." He swiped
          through the pages of the transfer document, still fuming. "You want to
          go back to being a pilot? After how that ended for you last time?"
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"You filed a rather sudden request, major. Why didn't you discuss
            it with me? It has ramifications for our little arrangement."</i
          >
          Cracken hadn't seemed any more pleased than Amesh.
          <i
            >"You've been a valuable asset, and someone I trust to give me
            unbiased findings on sensitive matters."
            <p>
              "Thank you, sir, but Intelligence is not the right career for me.
              To be honest, I never had a future there anyway. I'll never rise
              above mid-level investigator. I can't perform as a field agent,
              and I refuse to suck up to my superiors enough to move up to a
              higher position. Frankly, sir, I hate my job. I hate feeling like
              I'm on both sides. My coworkers don't trust me, and I can't say I
              trust them either, except for Captain Feldspar. I hope he gets
              promoted to fill my place."
            </p>
            <p>
              "He may make a fine interrogator for Colonel Amesh, but can he
              replace my watchdog?"
            </p>
            <p>"Perhaps not, sir. He's a little too naïve still."</p>
            <p>
              "Major, I still have use for you. I've taken the liberty of
              adjusting your transfer request. I'm sending you to Renegade Wing.
              You get to be a pilot again, but you keep your clearance, and you
              still work for me on the side."
            </p>
            <p>
              "Sir, I'm going to be a bit disconnected from intelligence. I
              won't have the same resources and attention to devote to - "
            </p>
            <p>
              "I need someone I can trust aboard the Vigilant. You'll know more
              once you arrive, but trust me when I say your new location will be
              to our mutual advantage on this case."
            </p></i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          "It says you want to transfer to Corsair squadron. What makes you
          think they'd even want someone with your record?"
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk ignored Amesh's condescending tone. "I might have some practice
          to do before I qualify, but that's not a problem. We have actual
          training programs now to help get new pilots up to speed. Besides,
          Renegade Wing suffered considerable losses. They need all the help
          they can get."
        </p>
        <p>
          "But they are stationed at the shipyards of Armath. That's where you
          said the Imperials would attack."
        </p>
        <p>
          "That's right. I could be in harm's way. You can't tell me that
          doesn't bring a smile to your face." Rosk nudged the datapad with her
          right pinky. "Just sign it. You never liked me, so why drag your
          feet?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "You're a promising agent, major." This from the fellow who had barely
          been with Intel a few months, compared to her four-year tenure. It
          would have been condescending, if he hadn't said it with an irritating
          sneer that spoke of other motives. "You've cracked some of our most
          stubborn prisoners. But your methods - "
        </p>
        <p>
          "My methods work. They aren't the problem. The problem is, you want me
          to do things your way, and I won't. Have you forgotten I punched you
          in the face?" <i>Don't make me do it again.</i> Rosk bumped the
          datapad closer to him one more time. The sweat rolling between her
          shoulder blades shortened her temper. "Sign it."
        </p>
        <p>
          He frowned. "How insolent of you to presume to tell me what to do,
          <i>lieutenant</i>."
        </p>
        <p>She facially shrugged and proceeded to wait.</p>
        <p>"What makes you think they have any use for a has-been?"</p>
        <p>Rosk didn't respond to the jab.</p>
        <p>
          "Now that we're officially the New Republic, standards are going to
          get stricter. Sooner or later, you'll have to learn to show proper
          respect to your officers."
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>Sooner or later, I'll get an officer who deserves that respect.</i>
          She continued to wait. She had no problem with authority or showing
          respect, but she did have a problem with people who belittled others
          in order to distract attention from their own shortcomings.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Given your success rate, I should encourage you to stay." The Duros'
          giant eyes blinked slowly at her.
        </p>
        <p>
          She waited, gazing steadily into his left eye. Duros' eyes were too
          large to meet their gaze evenly. You had to pick a favorite eye and
          stick with it or else look like you were watching the nuna in a
          Nuna-ball match.
        </p>
        <p>
          He hated her guts. He wanted her gone. She knew he was just trying to
          block her transfer just for the sake of revenge.
        </p>
        <p>"It might be a mistake to transfer you at this time."</p>
        <p>
          <i
            >You hate me so much that you'd rather keep me around than give me
            what I want? Fine. If that's how you want to play, let's rumble.</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          "I'd be willing to stay another two weeks. It would give me ample time
          to do a full investigation into your background, particularly your
          ties to Kessel." She stood up, reaching for the datapad. Truth was,
          she'd done a full background check on him the moment he'd transferred
          in. "I'll need to have my facts straight if whoever came down on Agent
          Zeno starts to investigate her known associates and comes to me for
          information."
        </p>
        <p>
          He pulled the pad away at the last moment and placed his digital
          signature on it. "You are a singularly unpleasant individual,
          lieutenant. I extend your new officers my sincerest sympathies."
        </p>
        <p>She smiled, genuinely. "Thank you, sir."</p>
        <p>
          <i>"Sir, what's going to happen to Zander and Breg?" </i>While in her
          cell, no one had shared any news with her. The encrypted call from
          Cracken had been her only "visitor".
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"The fellow in the coma will return to medical care until his
            condition improves or deteriorates. If he recovers, perhaps he will
            defect, as his friend has."
            <p>"But Zander, what happened to him?"</p>
            <p>
              "His request has been approved, on the condition that he serves us
              in a non-combat role. He's on probationary status and will be
              under constant supervision for security reasons, of course."
            </p>
            <p>"Thank you, sir."</p></i
          >
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          Battle of Endor +49 days<br />
          Sullust<br />
          New Republic Flight Academy of Sullust
        </p>
        <p>
          A month later, Rosk threw open the hatch of her simulator. All around
          her, other pilots did the same, jumping out of their simulator pods
          excitedly. Some were fresh recruits who had just enlisted in the New
          Republic's flight program, and others were like her, taking the
          program as remedial training.
        </p>
        <p>
          "You did fantastic!" Rosk hugged the nearest pilot, a Sullustan kid
          who had flown as her wingman in the sim. "What was that maneuver you
          pulled, Menno?"
        </p>
        <p>
          He chuckled. "You don't remember? Silence, I learned that from you in
          week three. The mission with the - "
        </p>
        <p>
          The other trainees drowned him out as they converged in the middle of
          the room, trading hugs, banter, and backslaps. Some of them still had
          months of training left to go, but all of them had made significant
          progress since their first day. Rosk only had a week left before she'd
          ship out to Corsair, the only squadron in Renegade Wing that
          specialized in RZ-1s, the successors to the R-22s she used to fly.
        </p>
        <p>
          Doc and Jobber had been right to encourage her to return to flying.
          She had almost forgotten how much she enjoyed the simple act of
          sending her spacecraft spinning through the stars and dancing around
          asteroids and enemy fighters. And nothing could compare to being
          surrounded by a team of exuberant friends after a hard-fought victory.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Who do you think Predator Six, the mystery instructor, is?" a
          Drabatan student asked as the ruckus settled. He gestured animatedly,
          acting out the battle with his hands. "That guy was all over me!"
        </p>
        <p>
          A man nodded, wiping his brow. "He - or she? - was on my tail, too! I
          think they were going light on us. Could have vaped me at least three
          times during that mission, unless their lasers were out of juice every
          time."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yeah?" Rosk scoffed. "You're lucky. He's blasts me apart every other
          mission. I swear he has a vendetta against me or something. I mean, I
          guess I'm learning from it, but it's getting a little old dying all
          the time."
        </p>
        <p>
          "I'm sure it's nothing personal." Menno patted her back. "How could it
          be? We've never seen his face. Maybe he expects more from you because
          of your previous experience."
        </p>
        <p>
          The chirping of her comlink forced her to squeeze out of the noisy
          tangle of people, searching for a quiet spot to take the call. Who
          would be calling her? She didn't know that many people who weren't
          already in the room with her . . . except her old coworkers in Intel.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>Please don't be Amesh.</i> Stepping into the corridor outside and
          closing the door behind her to dim the racket, she answered warily.
          "Vikeron here. Hello?"
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>"Ma'am!</i>" Evan's bright voice instantly calmed her apprehension.
          <i>"How's the training going?"</i>
        </p>
        <p>
          "It's going great, captain." She knew he wouldn't call her without a
          good reason. "How are things on your end?"
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"Well, it's been rough. They bumped me up to major, so I report
            directly to Amesh now. I realize now why you always clashed with
            him. It's not about his inexperience."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          "No, it's not. He's one of those people who likes to put everyone
          down."
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"I'm seeing that now. But whining about it won't do any good. I'll
            either figure out how to deal with him, or leave like you did. It's
            up to me to sort it out."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>He sounded so mature saying that! She felt a swell of pride.</p>
        <p>
          Evan cleared his throat.
          <i
            >"I didn't mean to make this call about me. I just wanted to check
            on you and Zander."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk cocked her head in confusion. "What do you mean, me and Zander? I
          haven't seen him since I got arrested."
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"Huh? I thought you would have run into him by now, given that they
            made him a flight instructor at the Sullust academy."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          "They what?" She supposed that made sense. His familiarity with
          Imperial ships and strategies made him a perfect candidate, especially
          since they'd be unlikely to trust a defector with live munitions any
          time soon. "No, I haven't seen him. He must be with another class."
        </p>
        <p><i>"No, ma'am - "</i></p>
        <p>"Stop calling me that. You outrank me, remember?"</p>
        <p>
          <i>"Uh, yeah. I keep forgetting."</i> Evan coughed sheepishly.
          <i
            >"But according to the records, he's with your group. He
            specifically requested it, actually."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          The mystery instructor? The one focusing on vaporizing her? "How rude.
          He's never said hello. How's his buddy doing?"
        </p>
        <p>
          <i
            >"His full name is Breg Mangalla, by the way. Also called Joker. I
            pulled some strings to get Zander visitation time every day, and the
            medical droid says Breg's brain activity is increasing. Zander's
            been telling him all your jokes."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          Rosk grinned to herself, imagining Zander rolling his eyes as he
          recounted her puns. "Tell Breg he better wake up because he owes me a
          butt-load of one-liners."
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>"Will do. Oh, there's one last thing."</i> Evan cleared his throat.
          <i>"Be careful."</i>
        </p>
        <p>"Why?"</p>
        <p>
          <i>"Remember what Zander said before he defected?</i> Ferro City's
          <i
            >destruction would have set Loring's plan back months. If Armath's
            still a target . . . well, it's been months. You might ship straight
            into a hot spot."</i
          >
        </p>
        <p>
          "Don't worry about me, sir." She grinned at the thought of him
          outranking her by not one but two levels. At least her low rank would
          put her in a junior position in Corsair instead of any position of
          leadership. "Thanks for the updates, but I have to get back to my
          training. Talk to you later!"
        </p>
        <p>
          She disconnected as the door next to her slid open. Menno's face
          popped out and his large, black eyes spotted her. "Silence! There you
          are! Hurry up. We're about to go again, but this time, it's your turn
          to be wing leader."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Sure." Rosk's innards twisted. Wing leader? She didn't want to be in
          that position again.
          <i>What if I fail again? What if I panic again? What if - </i>
        </p>
        <p>Menno grinned. "What's the matter? It's just practice."</p>
        <p>
          "That's no reason to be nonchalant about it," she admonished. "You'll
          perform on the field as you performed during practice."
        </p>
        <p>
          Menno waved a hand, trying to usher her inside. "I thought you were a
          veteran. Aren't you supposed to show us new recruits how it's done?"
        </p>
        <p>
          She swallowed, remembering Jobber's quote about courage. "Sorry,
          Menno, the only thing I can show you is how it shouldn't be done."
        </p>
        <p>
          "You know that's useful too, right, Silence?" The Sullustan took her
          by the shoulders and pulled her inside. "If you screw up horribly, the
          instructors will tell us all what you did wrong and how to avoid it."
        </p>
        <p>
          She remembered the cold terror in her stomach seeing the TIE Defenders
          drop out of hyperspace behind her squadron of flimsy R-22s.
        </p>
        <p>
          She remembered shutting down in panic when the first green shots blew
          apart her wingman. What were these strange, tri-paneled craft? Should
          she fight? Flee? This was her first mission as wing leader. What was
          she supposed to do?
        </p>
        <p>
          She remembered her men and women asking for orders, and she had none
          to give. Silence. That's what she had given them. Her Intel friends
          would never know how appropriate their nickname had been.
        </p>
        <p>
          She remembered spending her last conscious breath cursing the name of
          the officer who had promoted her to wing leader despite her protests
          and lack of experience.
        </p>
        <p>
          Lack of experience. Lack of training. The two things she'd needed most
          back then and didn't have. She'd thought bailing out of flying was the
          only way to prevent it from happening again, but no. Admitting defeat
          and rubbing her own nose in her failures had never helped anyone. The
          solution waited right in front of her, and all she needed was the guts
          to face it head on. She had to overcome her weaknesses.
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>Victor, not victim.</i> Perhaps it was more than a mindset. Perhaps
          it was a decision.
        </p>
        <p>
          Menno patted her shoulder. "So relax! The more you mess up now, the
          more we'll all learn."
        </p>
        <p>
          Taking a breath, she headed for her simulator pod. "Well, strap in,
          boys and girls, because you're about to learn a frak-ton, and it ain't
          gonna be pretty."
        </p>
        <p>
          Sealed inside the pod, surrounded by the lights of the instruments and
          displays as the scenario booted up, her vision blurred.
          <i>Stupid Menno!</i> How did a kid barely out of school cut her so
          deep with such a simple observation?
        </p>
        <p>
          <i>Truth is the sharpest sword.</i> She answered her own question as
          she ran through the pre-flight checks. Blinking away tears, she
          ignored the betrayal of her eyes. He was right.
        </p>
        <p>
          This was practice, and while she was supposed to try her hardest to
          lead her squadron to victory, this was her chance to show them all
          just how wrong things could go. They needed to be prepared for
          anything, including an incompetent leader, so that if they ever faced
          the situation White Squadron had been in, maybe they would survive.
        </p>
        <p>
          She had to prepare them, even if it meant reliving the worst moments
          of her life. Even if it meant watching Zander tear apart her squad one
          more time. He wasn't here to be her friend. He was here to teach her a
          lesson.
        </p>
        <p>
          Taking a breath, she wiped her eyes and grabbed her stick. "This is
          for you, White Squadron."
        </p>
        <div class="chapter-internal-break" epub:type="pagebreak">
          <p class="center-text">. . .</p>
        </div>
        <p>
          Battle of Endor +79 days<br />
          Sullust<br />
          New Republic Flight Academy of Sullust
        </p>
        <p>
          "Woooo! We made it, Silence!" Menno tackled Rosk, nearly bowling her
          over. The graduating class had moved from the formal ceremony to the
          nearest bar, and Rosk got to watch as her classmates grew tipsier and
          rowdier by the minute.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Yeah, we made it." Sipping her starberry milkshake, Rosk kept
          scanning the roomful of jubilant pilots.
        </p>
        <p>
          Menno's huge eyes blinked blearily at her. "Who - <i>hic!</i> - are
          you looking for?"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Our mystery instructor." Part of her felt a bit jilted. After
          everything they'd been through, Zander now avoided her entirely? He
          hadn't shown his face once.
        </p>
        <p>
          "Good luck! If it weren't for him coaching us during the simulators -
          " the Sullustan swayed and sagged into the nearest chair with a blech
          " - we wouldn't even know his voice."
        </p>
        <p>
          "I don't need luck. I know exactly where to find him." She shipped out
          tomorrow morning, and if she didn't catch him here tonight, she might
          never see him again. They hadn't gotten a chance to exchange contact
          information. If Zander wasn't going to congratulate his most dedicated
          student, she'd have to track him down.
        </p>
        <p>
          She couldn't claim to be the best of her class, not by a long shot,
          but she had made the most improvement. Her single reenactment of White
          Squadron's demise had gotten her reprimanded by three different
          instructors and yelled at by every student in her group, but she stood
          by her decision. She and everyone else had learned a great deal about
          recovering during a surprise attack or a casualty in the command
          structure.
        </p>
        <p>
          "I'm going to step out. Don't drink too - " Rosk blinked as Menno's
          unconscious form slid off the chair and collapsed under the table.
          "Never mind." . . .
        </p>
        <p>
          Battle of Endor +79 days<br />
          Sullust<br />
          New Republic Naval Medical Center
        </p>
        <p>
          The thin, green line on monitor spiked rhythmically, soundlessly
          counting out each beat of Breg's heart and every shallow breath of his
          lungs. Those vitals and many more were transmitted to the medical
          droids working the night shift, who would respond immediately to any
          fluctuation, but Rosk would have preferred an audible reassurance.
        </p>
        <p>
          The man's chest rose and fell softly in the dim glow of the monitor
          and the blue strip lighting around the floor. She had arrived that
          evening to find him alone, and as she stood by the door waiting, she
          counted his breaths.
        </p>
        <p>Silence.</p>
        <p>
          Was Zander not going to visit his wingman tonight? Evan had told her
          he'd cleared Zander for supervised visitation every night.
        </p>
        <p>
          Minutes crept by. She spent a few credcoins getting terrible caf from
          the hospital vending machine, and for a time, the sound of her gentle
          sips had given the room a hint of life. Finishing off the cup, she
          tossed it in the trash receptacle and continued to wait.
        </p>
        <p>Silence.</p>
        <p>
          She curled up in the visitor's chair, and her mind wandered back to
          her training.
        </p>
        <p>
          Zander had singled her out, harassed her, and chased her down more
          than anyone. When she cussed him out through gritted teeth and
          swimming eyes, he'd berated her until she pulled it together. He had
          shown her no mercy in preparing her for the worst combat situations
          imaginable. She'd graduated with decent scores and a confidence she'd
          sorely lacked back at Torque. Was that his way of making up for his
          role in her loss? But why avoid her entirely?
        </p>
        <p>
          She stared at Breg's inert form, but he offered no response to her
          unspoken questions.
        </p>
        <p>Silence.</p>
        <p>
          Sighing, she hugged her legs to her chest and dozed off on her knees.
          TIE Fighters filled her dreams. Red lasers minced them into slag, but
          the vastness of space swallowed up all sound from the explosions.
        </p>
        <p>"Silence."</p>
        <p>
          "Hyaah!" She jerked awake as someone tapped a rolled-up flimsy against
          her face repeatedly. Squinting, she swatted at the offender. "Hey!
          Stop it!"
        </p>
        <p>
          "Very disciplined." Zander grinned at her. "This explains why I
          couldn't find you after the ceremony. I thought you got drunk and
          passed out somewhere."
        </p>
        <p>"I don't drink."</p>
        <p>
          "And yet you still passed out somewhere." He chuckled. "Look, I just
          wanted to say thank you. For everything. I was pretty hard on you
          during training, but soft combat instructors - "
        </p>
        <p>
          " - get their students killed on the battlefield. I know. Thank you,
          Poker."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Actually, I'd rather not keep my old call sign. Poker and Joker.
          Everyone called us that since the academy." He smiled faintly. "But
          some things are better left in the past."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Fine. I'm going to keep calling you Jock, then." She punched him in
          the shoulder. "You could have said hello, at least."
        </p>
        <p>
          "And have all the students talking about why their instructor has a
          tracker on his ankle and is followed everywhere by two security
          guards?" Jerking a thumb over his shoulder at the door, he lowered his
          voice. "Everywhere. Can't even go to the refresher alone."
        </p>
        <p>She laughed. "Having second thoughts about defecting?"</p>
        <p>
          "Not at all. They're still better company than what I used to put up
          with."
        </p>
        <p>
          "Hey!" Rosk grabbed Breg's limp hand defensively. "Don't talk about
          Breg like that!"
        </p>
        <p>
          Their laughter filled the room that had felt like a tomb only moments
          ago.
        </p>
        <p>And then, without warning, Breg's fingers tightened around hers.</p>
      </div>
    </section>
  </body>
</html>
